The Black Experience in America
Negro Periodicals in the United States, 1840-1960
The Black Experience in America
Negro Periodicals in the United States, 1840-1960
Alexander’s Magazine
Volumes 1-7 (1905-1909)
Colored American Magazine
Volumes 1-17/25 (1900-1909)
Competitor
Volumes 1-3/24 (1920-1921)
Crisis; A Record of the Darker Races
Volumes 1-47(1910-1940)
Douglass’ Monthly
Volumes 1-5 (1858-1863)
Half-Century Magazine
Volumes 1-18/21 (1916-1925)
Messenger; World’s Greatest Negro Monthly
Volumes 1-10/25 (1917-1928)
National Anti-Slavery Standard
Volumes 1-30(1840-1870)
National Era
Volumes 1-14 (1847-1860)
National Principia
Volumes 1-15/227 (1858-1866)
Negro Quarterly, A Review of Negro Life and Culture
Numbers 1-4 (1942-1943)
Opportunity; A Journal of Negro Life
Volumes 1-17(1923-1939)
Quarterly Review of Higher Education Among Negroes
Volumes 1-28(1933-1960)
Race Relations; A Monthly Summary of Events and Trends
Volumes 1-5(1943-1948)
Radical Abolitionist
Volumes 1-4/25 (1855-1858)
Southern Frontier
Volumes 1-6 (1940-1945)
Voice of the Negro
Volumes 1-4 (1904-1907)
Crisis
A Record of the Darker Races
Volumes 3-4
1911-1912
NEGRO UNIVERSITIES PRESS
NEW YORK-1969
This reprint edition reproduces, in an unaltered
form, the entire contents of the original publication,
as far as it has been possible to determine.
This work has been printed on long-life paper
and conforms to the standards developed
under the sponsorship of the
Council on Library Resources.
Printed in the United States of America
SBN 8371-1187-0
FIRST.ANNIVERSARY NUMBER
NOVEMBER. 1911
Number One
(lilie Qpua&ronn
Daughter of Twilight,
Mothered of Midnight,
Fathered of Daylight and Dawn;
Shadow of Sunlight,
Shimmering Starlight,
Sister of Forest and Fawn!
Maid of a Morrow,
Mistress of Sorrow,
Mingled of Mourning and Mirth:
Born of World Brotherhood,
Crowned of all Motherhood,
Beauty of Heaven and Earth!
Phoio by SCURLOCK
ONE DOLLAR A YEAR
TEN CENTS A COPY
Those Xmas Gifts
q Of course it’s early, but after all Christmas is but seven little weeks
away.
CJ Now we’ve prepared a Christmas card with one of The Crisis girls
on it. You know the one—with wistful face and the shadow of songs
in her eyes.
This we’ll print daintily in delicate brown on fine cardboard, together
with a sprig of holly, naturally, and that sort of thing. Then we’ll add
some words like these:
Dear Friend:
To wish you MERRY CHRISTMAS I have
ordered The CRISIS sent to you throughout the
GLAD NEW YEAR.____________________________________
q All this, of course, in deep old gothic type with initials illuminated—
CRISIS way. Quite a lovely card in itself.
q Really, now, haven’t you several friends of varied color who would
appreciate this gift?
q A postcard will bring you as many of these cards as you n>ish.
THE CRISIS
A RECORD OF THE DARKER RACES
Published by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, at
20 Vesey Street, New York City.
W. B. BURGHARDT DU BOIS. Editor
M.	D. MACLEAN, Managing Editor
PRANK M. TURNER. Circulation Manager
ALBON L. HOLSEY, Advertising Manager
Contributing
Editor*
( OSWALD GARRISON VILLARD
) J. MAX BARBER
■< CHARLES EDWARD RUSSELL
j W. S BRAITHWAITE
[ KELLY MILLER
CONTENTS FOR NOVEMBER, 1911
ALONG THE COLOR LINE.............................   7
OPINION .........................................  13
MEN OF THE MONTH.................................. 18
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE................................... 20
EDITORIAL ........................................ 21
ARAB SCHOOL: Photograph........................... 22
A YEAR OF SEGREGATION: By W. Ashbie Hawkins....... 27
SOME HEADLINES ................................... 31
WOMEN'S CLUBS: Colored American Women. By Dr. S. M. Stewart.	33
THE BURDEN .......................................  34
WHAT TO READ....................................... 35
THE CHRISTMAS CRISIS
C[ We shall be in complete new dress for Christmas, thanks to the hand of Miss
Louise Latimer. Our cover will have a reproduction of that fine old masterpiece by
Albrecht Diirer, “The Adoration of the Magi,** with the black king as a central
figure. The original is in Florence. Then there will be a daring Christmas story:
“Jesus Christ in Georgia." It will be a splendid number. Order it early.
We have begun our campaign for a circulation of 25,000, and our subscription
clerk is pretty busy.
Agents wanted who can furnish references.
Entered as second-class matter in the post office at New York City.
4
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
1N
Pt
FORWARD
MARCH YOUR SON OFF TO
Wilberforce University
The only school in the country for
Negro Youth which has a Military De-
partment equipped by the National
Government, ana commanded by a detailed
United States Army Officer.
DEPARTMENTS
MI LIT Alt Y	SCIENTIFIC
NORMAL	TECHNICAL
COMMERCIAL	THEOLOGICAL
CLASSICAL	MUSICAL
PREPARATORY
Banking taught by the actual operations
in the Students’ Savings Bank. Twelve
Industries, 180 acres of beautiful campus,
Ten Buildings. Healthful surroundings,
exceptional community. Maintained in
part by the State of Ohio which supplies
facilities for the thorough training of
teachers.
Fall term began September 19th, 1911.
Write for Catalog.
W.	S. SCARBOROUGH, President
WM. A. JOINER, Superintendent, C. N.
I. Department.
Address all communications to
BOX 36	WTLBERFORCE, OHIO
Atlanta University
Is boautifully located in the City of Atlanta, Qa.
The courses of study includo High School, Nor-
mal School and Collogo, with manual training
and domestic science. Among tho teachers are
graduates of Yale, Harvard, Dartmouth, Smith
and Wellesloy. Forty-fine years of successful
work have been completed. Students come from
all parts of the South. Graduates arc almost
universally successful.
For further information address
President EDWARD T. WARE
ATLANTA, GA.
Knoxville College
Beautiful Situation, Healthful Location
The Best Moral and Spiritual Environment
A Splendid Intellectual Atmosphere
Noted for Honest and Thorough Work
Offers full courses in the following de-
partments: College, Normal, High School,
Grammar School and Industrial.
Good water, steam heat, electric lights,
good drainage. Expenses very reasonable.
Opportunity for Self-help.
Fall Term Opened Sept. 27, 1911.
For information address
President R. W. McGranalian
KNOXVILLE, TENN.
Uirginia Union University
RICHMOND, VA.
A College Department, of high standards and
modern curriculum.
A Theological Department, with all subjects
generally required in the best theological
seminaries.
An Academy, with manual training, giving
a preparation for life or for college.
Tho positive moral and religious aim of the
school, its high standards of entrance and of
class work, its fine new buildings and woll-
cquipped laboratories and library, prepare a
faithful student for a life of wide usefulness.
GEORGE RICE HOVEY President
HtuiwatttJ
This institution of learning, established in 1865,
.has industrial departments for both young men
and young women, as well as college, normal and
preparatory departments. There are also Schools
of Law, Medicine, Pharmacy and Theology.
The facilities have recently been increased.
Other improvements are being planned that will
be completed within tho next two years.
Applications should be made several months or
a year in advance, for it has become impossible
during the last few years to receive all who
apply. The present enrollment is over 500.
Tho academic year begins on the - Thursday
nearest the first day of October and continues for
thirty-two consecutive weeks. The charges nre
moderate. Catalogues furnished upon application.
Address THE PRESIDENT
i	Shaw University, Raleigh, N. 0.
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS
ADVERTISER
5
Atlanta IHaptiat (EnUrge
ATLANTA, GEORGIA
Established 1867
A School for Boys and Men
DEPARTMENTS:
GRADES	FINE EQUIPMENT
ACADEMY	STRONG FACULTY
COLLEGE	DIVINITY SCHOOL
Societies, Debating Clubs and Athletics.
For further information address
JOHN HOPE, President.
American Church Institute
for Negroes
SIX SCHOOLS
The Bishop Payne Divinity School. Peters-
burgh, Va., Warden, the Reverend C. B. Bryan,
D.D.; St. Augustine's School, Raleigh, N. C., for
normal and collegiate training, the Reverend A.
B. Hunter, Principal; the St. Paul Normal and
Industrial School, Lawrenceville, Va., the Rev-
erend James S. Russell, Principal; St. Atha-
nasius’ School, Brunswick, Ga.t Mr. A. N. Perry,
Principal; St. Mark's School, Birmingham, Ala.,
the Reverend C. W. Brooks. Principal; the
Vicksburg Industrial School, Vicksburg, Miss.,
the Reverend W. H. Marshall, Principal. For
information apply to the principal at any school
or to the Reverend Samuel H. Bishop, General
Agent, 416 Lafayette Street, New York City.
BOOKS
Publications of the N. A. A. C. P.
The N. A. A- C. P. has for sale the following
pamphlets:
1.	Disfranchisement: A powerful argument by
the Rev. John Haynes Holmes.
2.	Education in the South:	Facts about the
discrimination against the Negro. By the Rev.
Horace Bumstead, former president of Atlanta
University.
3.	The Real Race Problem: A scientific com-
parison of the black and the white man by
America’s foremost anthropologist, Prof. Boas, of
Columbia University.
4.	Social Control. By Jane Addams, of Hull
House.
5.	The Negro as a Soldier. By Brigadier-
General Burt, U. S. A.
FIVE CENTS EACH. THREE DOLLARS A HUNDRED
The Curie of Race Prejudice
James F. Morton, Jr., A.M., Author and Publisher
Forceful, rational, comprehensive. An arsenal
of facts and unanswerable arguments. Invaluable
for propaganda. Read the chapter on “The Bug-
bear of Social Equality,” which is a veritable
eye-opener. Thousands already sold. Agents
wanted everywhere.
PRICE 25 CENTS
Address the Author at 244 West 143d Street,
New York, N. Y.
DO YOU READ BOOKS?
THEN READ PAGE SIX.
t----------------
The	A Novel
Quest
of tlie
Silver
Fleece
by
VV.E. BURGHARDT
DU BOIS
Drawings by
H. S. DE LAY
Here is a story of the darker world
in the South and in Washington, D. C.
It is dramatic in style and absorbing
in interest and expresses the feeling
of colored people about themselves
and their own problems; at the same
time it shows how both black folk
and white are caught in the power of
King Cotton.
AT ALL BOOKSTORES
PRICE SI.35 NET
A. C. McCLURG & CO.
New York
Chicago
San Francisco
PUBLICATIONS
A. M. E. Book Concern Philadelphia, Pa.
THE POEMS OF PHILLIS WHEATLEY.
Reprint of first edition 1773; a valuable book.
Price, $1.00.
THE NEGRO PROBLEM. An analysis: What
It Is Not and What It Is; by R. R. Wright, Jr.
In pamphlet form. 15 cents.
THE COLORED REGULARS. By T. G.
Steward, Chaplain U. S. A., retired. Price, $1.50.
EVOLUTION AND LIFE. By Algernon B.
Jackson, Surgeon-in-ehief Mercy Hospital. Price,
75 cents.
THE NEGRO IN PENNSYLVANIA. A Study
in Economic History; By R. R. Wright, Jr.,
Sometime Research Fellow in Sociology in the
University of Pennsylvania. (Ready Nov. 15th.)
Price, Paper, $2.00: Cloth. $2.50.
Address
A. M. E. BOOK CONCERN
6S1 Pine Street,	Philadelphia, Pa.
Atlanta University
Studies of the
Negro Problems
15 Monographs. Sold Separately.
Address:
A. G. DILL
Atlanta University, Atlanta, Ga.
Mention Thb Crisis.
6
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
THE
BOORS
ARE/iYOU INTERESTED
Din theJII
NEGRO PROB
ORA5
PART 611
I
THE
MAGAZINE
STUDENTS OF THE NEGRO PROBLEM
The Souls of Black Folk, DuBois
History of the Negro • Washington
John Brown •	■ DuBois
Up From Slavery • • Washington
Poems of Paul Laurence
Dunbar
Poems of W. S. Braith-
waite
Race Adjustment	•	Miller
Negro In the New World, Johnston
Following the Color Line, Baker
Works of Charles W.
Chestnutt
Atlanta University Studies
Negro and the Nation ■ Merriam
Negro In the South ■ j Washington
Aftermath of Slavery • Sinclair
Half a Man •	•	Ovington
Life of Harriet Beecher
Stowe • • . . Stowe
Mind of Primitive	Man,	Boaz
Race Prejudice ■	•	Finot
Curse of Race Prejudice, Morton
Quest of the Silver Fleece,
a novel -	-	- DuBois
Through Afro-America, Archer
Southern South ■	•	Hart
Inter-Racial Problems, Official Record
of the Universal Races Congress
I
THE CRISIS
A RECORD OH THE DARKER RACES
And general readers will
find this list embraces the
most popular and compre-
hensive studies of the Negro
question. They are the
best books by the best
writers and thinkers. By
special arrangements with
the publishers of the books
we are in position to make
combination offers at re-
markably low prices. This
offer is good for a limited
time only and is made to
increase the subscription
list of
THE CRISIS
the magazine edited by
V/. E. B. DuBois with the co-operation of Oswald Garrison /
Villard, Charles Edward Russell, Kelly Miller and /
others. The Crisis is the organ of the National As- /
sociation For the Advancement of Colored People /
and is a record of every important happening and /
movement in the world which bears on the great /	^he
problems of inter racial relations and especially / Publishers
/of the CRISIS
/ 20Vesey Street
OUR OFFER!	/ New York City.
We have made special combinations Gentlemen.
with these books in sets of five, ten, fif-	. .	CaSC Sen ’
.	,	..	. without any cost to
teen and twenty, together with a Aw	,	.	.
.	...	, - . . nr me, your descriptive
year s subscription to ihcCnsts, v	-
0*1 MliAl A 1UI
tu corn a cor»
those which affect the NcgTO American.
and will be glad to have the ^
names and addresses of a"
who find themselves
interested in this
greatest of
problems
circular offering these
sets of books on the
Negro Problem and a
year’s subscription to the
CRISIS.
Name------
Address______
City_________
State_______—.
Along the Color Line
POLITICS.
In Oklahoma two election inspectors
have been convicted in the Federal
Court of conspiracy to deprive Negroes
of the right of suffrage. The election
was a test case to decide the efficacy
of the “Grandfather Clause." The case
will be appealed. The men, who are
liable to a year in prison and $100 fine
each, have been released on $2,000
bonds. It is said that the State officials
are ready to call out the militia to enforce
the “Grandfather Clause."
q The colored people of Kansas City
tried to get President Taft to receive a
special delegation, but were unable to.
q The silence of President Taft con-
cerning recent lynching outrages has
aroused considerable protest among col-
ored people. This was voiced at a
meeting in Washington, D. C., and also
at a meeting of the New England
Suffrage League at Haverhill, Mass,
q In Illinois a colored Independent
Political League has been started.
All these movements have caused
the formation of an administration
Republican Club in Washington, D. C.,
promoted by the officeholders,
q In Nashville, Tenn., the colored vot-
ers registered largely for the fall elec-
tions, and elected S. P. Harris to the
city council.
q In Asbury Park, N. J., E. C. Burgess
has been named by the Republicans for
the city council.
q In Baltimore, Md., C. M. Dorsey is
the colored member of the grand jury
which is investigating the fraud at the
Democratic primaries,
q In a recent Philadelphia election the
Republican bosses made a desperate ap-
peal to the colored vote, saying: “Under
the dead Durham (peace to his ashes),
Charles Seger and Charles B. Hall, the
7th Ward has become a garden spot, the
political Eden of the colored people of
Philadelphia. The political recognition
accorded our people in the 7th Ward, in
the city, county, State and United States
Government service, is simply magnifi-
cent. It is because Durham, Hall and
Seger believed in a square deal for their
colored political friends."
q Everett J. Waring of Philadelphia,
has been appointed attorney for the de-
partment of factory inspector,
q Clement G. Morgan of Cambridge,
Mass., a lawyer and former alderman,
ran for the Republican nomination for
the State legislature. He received nearly
400 votes, but was defeated.
q The Republicans of Cincinnati, who
are kept in office by Negroes, are trying
to abolish the office of assistant pay-
master held by .a colored man, Mr.
W. P. Dabney. The colored people are
making a vigorous protest.
q The Democrats of Delaware are seek-
ing to organize the Negroes of the
State into Democratic clubs.
q An echo of the Coatesville lynching
is heard in the political affairs of East-
ern Pennsylvania. The Negroes are
threatening to bolt the Republican ticket
and vote for the Keystone party. White
people of Coatesville have shown their
attitude by defeating the son of the
judge who has been pursuing the lynch-
ers and renominating the accused chief
of police.
q The Negroes of California did their
part to bring about the woman suffrage
victory. The Liberator, an organ of the
Los Angeles colored folk, says: “The
Negro cannot afford to ally himself
with the interests that are opposing
women suffrage. While there are doubt-
less some conscientious men opposing
women suffrage, the fact that all the
evil combinations of to-day are fighting
woman’s suffrage is proof of woman’s
fitness to vote and should bring to the
support of the amendment every intelli-
gent man of the State. If the Negro
who has the ballot hopes to restore it
to his millions of disfranchised brethren,
he cannot ally himself with those evil
combinations which seek to confine the
ballot to the few they can handle, but
he will have to vote for every measure
looking to the extension of the ballot."
q The Honorable Harry C. Smith, edi-
tor of the Cleveland Gazette and former
member of the Ohio Legislature, has
been nominated on the regular ticket
as candidate for the Ohio Constitutional
Convention.
GHETTO.
The theatre at Evanston, 111., after
being threatened with law suits, is said
to have ceased discrimination against its
colored patrons.
q In Baltimore a small race riot was
caused by a colored family moving into
a street occupied largely by whites. A
2£> >
8
THE CRISIS
crowd of 300 broke all the windows in
the house and drove the family out.
dozen policemen arrived “too late.”
Incited by the success of the above
ob, another one attacked two colored
families in Myrtle Avenue and stoned
a white man’s house through mistake.
<1 In West Belle Place, a suburb of St.
Louis, a segregation ordinance is pro-
posed.
In Muskogee, Okla., the Railway
Commission has ordered the Electric
Traction Company on one line to pro-
vide separate street cars for Negroes
and whites. “The opinion,” to quote the
Muskogee Phoenix, “scores the Negroes
of Muskogee, especially the more edu-
cated element, such as doctors and law-
yers, for attempting to create class
feeling by encouraging Negroes to keep
their seats and not give them up to
the whites.”
writing a note to her. The court dis-
charged him for lack of jurisdiction.
<1 Notice is called to the fact that in
framing the accusations against colored
soldiers every effort is made to bring
in the clement of race prejudice by stat-
ing that the victim is “white,” and in
other ways.
<3 The Kings County Woman’s Suffrage
Association has invited the colored
women’s Political Equality League to
unite with them.
In Richmond, Va., a murder in a
colored house of ill-fame revealed the
presence there of two prominent white
men, Dr. A. B. Cosby and Arthur L.
Griffin.
<1 A newspaper correspondent has dis-
covered the town of Wybark in Texas,
where white men are not allowed to
stop over night.
C| When C. L. Covington died at the
National Military Home in Indianapolis,
the fact was disclosed that he was
“colored” although white.
<3 The State of Tennessee has recently
established a board for registering
nurses. The board consisted of white
women, and when they met they re-
fused to register colored nurses, even
though these nurses had had more than
the required training. The matter may
go to the courts.
<3 At Marietta, Ga., G. P. Johnson, the
twenty-year-old son of a prominent
white farmer, went to the home of Miss
Celia Thomas, a colored woman. His
companions followed him there. The
Atlanta Journal reports: “They found
Johnson, so it is said, seated on a bed
in the Negro woman’s house. The
woman stated that she did not want
Johnson in the house. The two young
men attempted to make Johnson leave
and the woman said that she was going
to shoot Johnson if he did not go at
once.
“One of the friends of Johnson saw
that the Negro woman held a shotgun
in her hand and the gun was cocked.
He made an attempt to seize the gun
and the woman fired, the load of shot
entering one side of Johnson’s head and
blowing his head practically off. John-
son's two friends fled.”
The woman has since been indicted
for murder in the first degree.
Cj At Alton, 111., Bradley Hayden,
eighteen years of age, arraigned for
wife abandonment, told the judge that
he had abandoned his bride of two
months because he had discovered that
her father was colored.
<J A young colored man working in
the same office with a white girl in
Washington, D. C., was arrested for
<3 A report that W. Stewart Robertson,
a retired insurance broker of Montreal,
had visited New York for the purpose
of having annulled the marriage of his
son, W. Stewart, Jr., revealed the fact
that the young man had eloped from
Montreal with Gertrude Townsend, a
colored girl, who was a member of the
chorus of Cole and Johnson’s “Red
Moon” company.
“My father and sister were here a
few weeks ago and stopped at the
Manhattan Hotel,” he said. “They
visited us here at our home and ap-
peared to be very well satisfied with
our marriage.” •
*3 A colored Oklahoma paper declares
that the white farmers’ convention,
which resolved to keep out Negro land
owners, was composed of men who
owned no land themselves.
<3 Justice Hughes will be the only
white resident of his block when he
takes possession of his new Washington
home.
<3 C. M. Love, a colored man, passed
for white at Spartansburg, S. C. Then
he found out that he wanted to marry
a colored girl, but the law would not
let him. He revealed the fact that he
himself was colored, when the judge
fined him $100 because he acknowledged
the fact that he had eaten with white
folks.
<3 A small residential Ghetto is being
prepared for colored people at Duluth,
Minn.
<3 The best citizens of Monroe, La.,
are very much excited because a col-
ored man addressed a white woman on
the street. The white woman’s small
brothers proceeded to pummel him, and
he slapped the boys over. A mob of
a thousand people followed him through
the street after he was arrested.
ALONC THE
COLOR LINE
9
•J The residents of Germantown, Pa.,
are protesting against the opening of a
school to train colored girls in domestic
science.
•] The white citizens of Pleasant Hill
near Birmingham, Ala., are very much
excited over the plans for an industrial
school and masonic home for Negroes.
•I The people of Baltimore do not want
colored athletic grounds at Herring
Run Park. They also are trying to
have one of the colored industrial
schools given up to white pupils. The
school board opposes this plan.
«3 The Negro Salvation Army has been
ordered away from Chattanooga, Tenn.
•I The Chicago papers have been run-
ning scare headlines about the hiring
out of white girls from a State insti-
tution to the colored proprietor of a
restaurant. The official of the insti-
tution called attention to the fact that
this happened five years ago.
<3 Governor Hoke Smith took up a page
in the New York Sunday Times to
prove that the Negro was a burden to
Georgia and largely inefficient. The
next Sunday a similar page was occu-
pied by Professor Boas and others to
prove the civilization of Africa, the
large amount of property owned by
Georgia Negroes, and the general lack
of logic in Mr. Smith’s talk.
ECONOMICS.
Several strikes are taking place among
Southern Negro laborers.
<3 The strike of the Southern Pacific
employees involves some thirty-five
Negro laborers in New Orleans.
The colored roustabouts have struck
in connection with the Illinois Central
strike at Memphis.
C[ In reducing the force in the archi-
tect’s office, the Secretary of the Treas-.
ury has been pressed to get rid of the
colored employees, but refused to do so.
<3 The Brotherhood of Railway Train-
men, in the district between the Mis-
souri River and the Pacific, are trying
to get rid of Negro brakemen.
<3 The longshoremen near Galveston,
Tex., refused to permit Negroes to load
a British vessel at that port.
<3 The colored Odd Fellows have pur-
chased a three-story brick building for
$36,000 in New Orleans.
<3 The census returns show that colored
farm owners are increasing and farm
laborers decreasing.
€3 Moses Yopp, a colored farmer of
Dublin, Ga., has raised between twenty-
five and thirty bales of cotton on twenty
acres.
A mob of armed colored men held
up a Georgia passenger train and
forced the non-union men to sidetrack
it. The Negro and white firemen here
are striking together.
CJ The Gulf division of the Longshore-
men's Union has admitted colored men
to equal rights in the union.
The Gadsden (Alabafha) News has
the following choice bile * “Jim Cain is
a one-gallus Negro farmer living in
East Gadsden, but mighty few citizens
of Etowah county, black or white, are
contributing as much to the prosperity
of the county as Jim.
Yesterday he brought in his tenth
bale of cotton, and of the ten that he
has produced not a single one weighed
less than 500 pounds. He has more
of the fleecy staple to gather and as
Jim lives at home and boards at the
same place he is apt to finish the sea-
son with much surplus coin in his jeans.
Raising cotton and little Cains is Jim’s
long suit.”
<3 The Negro stevedores at the Mont-
gomery freight house, Alabama, have
received an increase from ten to twelve
and a half cents an hour.
<3 The Jacksonville (Florida) Metropolis
says that eight Negro plasterers are
going to compete against eight white
plasterers to prove their ability.
<3 A labor agent who was trying to
hire Negroes to work on a railway has
been killed in North Carolina. “Par-
ticulars of the tragedy have not been
learned.”
<2 The Census Bureau sends out the
following report: “The number of farms
operated by white farmers was 5,422,S92,
or 85.5 per cent, of all farms, while the
number operated by Negro and other
non-white farmers was 917,465, or 14.5
per cent, of the whole. There is a
slight increase in the proportion of
Negro and other non-white farmers, the
proportion of farms operated by them
ten years ago being 13.4 per cent.
Whether this increase in the propor-
tionate number of Negro farmers means
any increase in the relative extent of
farming conducted by Negroes cannot
be determined till further tabulations
are made showing the size of farms by
color of farmer.”
It is interesting to note the curious
ebulition of race prejudice in the last
six lines.
<3 The Boley (Oklahoma) Progress de-
clares that Boley is the largest Negro
town in the United States. Has a popu-
lation of 4,000. Has its own city gov-
ernment. Has an assessed valuation
of $500,000. One bank with bank de-
posits of $100,000. Has ninety business
houses, seven churches, one high school
10
THE CRISIS
and two colleges. Boley has the only
third-class postoffice (Negro) in the
United States and the only electric-
light plant for commercial purposes,
owned and operated by Negroes, in the
United States. Boley has a telegraph
office, sidewalks, city water works, four
cotton gins, and is surrounded by the
best farming belt in the world.
CJ J. H. Torbert, financial agent of the
Fort Valley Industrial School, was acci-
dentally killed recently. He was well
known in the South and had accumu-
lated a valuable estate,
q Dr. J. R. Francis, Jr., has been ap-
pointed dental examiner in the colored
public schools of Washington, D. C.
q About one hundred colored people
are engaged in pearl fisheries near
Shreveport, La. Some are making as
much as $30 a day.
SOCIAL UPLIFT.
The report on the college-bred Negro
recently issued by Atlanta University
has aroused a great deal of favorable
comment.
q The eleventh annual report of the
Baptist Women’s Convention shows that
they have raised, during the year,
$13,118 for missionary and uplift pur-
poses. In addition to this, local asso-
ciations have raised $7,573.
q The total cost of the Universal Races
Congress, 'until July 22,	1911, was
$17,065.
q The Howard Colored Orphan Asy-
lum has dedicated thirteen buildings
placed on 572 acres of land at Kings
Park, Long Island.
q The colored people of New Orleans
are raising $7,000 to enlarge the colored
female annex to the Charity Hospital.
q A Negro aviator is flying at Mem-
phis, Tenn., and Macon, Ga.
q The highest stand man in the big
French government’s school of agri-
tulture this year is Racine Madolmba,
a Negro, who is the son of the Gov-
ernor of an Upper Niger State. The
father entered the French service as a
telegraph operator, won the cross of
the Legion of Honor as a soldier and
acquired with his governorship a kingly
title. Also, he is a millionaire cotton
planter, who has the brains to help his
son become a brilliant agriculturist,
rather than retain him as a petty prince,
q A lady at Hotel Champlain, New
York, lost a $1,600 diamond ring, which
was promptly returned to her by a
colored bellboy.
q Mr. Booker T. Washington, principal
of Tuskegee Institute, has made a lec-
ture tour of the State of Texas.
q The Lincoln Hospital of Indianapolis
is a colored institution, accommodating
about fifty patients, and- is usually
crowded.
q The Democratic Legislature of New
York passed the bill establishing a Negro
regiment. It went to the Governor, who
returned it for technical revision. The
Legislature thereupon adjourned before
reaching the bill for reconsideration.
q The Rev. David E. Murff and wife,
who are conducting a Negro Baptist
Mission in Africa, are visiting in this
country. They have under their super-
vision 15,000 native Christians, 110 stu-
dents, 65 native preachers and 10 day
schools.
q Mrs. Mary Church Terrell will de-
liver five lectures before the Brooklyn
Institute of Arts and Sciences on the
Negro in the United States.
q Davis. E. Jones, a graduate of Wes-
leyan University, Conn., has been made
one of the colored national secretaries
of the Y. M. C. A. work.
q The Negro building at the Appa-
lachian Exposition at Knoxville, Tenn.,
has been opened. The exhibits include
farming products, domestic science and
needlework and art exhibits. Knoxville
College is especially prominent.
q A colored man named Brown at
Atlanta, Ga., at considerable risk, saved
twenty-five horses from being burned to
death.
<1 In Buenos Ayres is a statue to
Falucho, a Negro soldier who refused
to haul down the Argentine flag at the
bidding of the Spanish soldiery, during
the first Argentine revolution, and was
shot down by the Spanish.
EDUCATION.
Morgan College, an institution for
colored people in Baltimore, has raised
$65,000 in order to secure the gift of
$50,000 promised by Andrew Carnegie.
q The Model Training School founded
by Miss Judia Jackson near Athens, Ga.,
has induced the colored farmers round-
about to buy 340 acres of land in small
homesteads, and is doing, in many other
ways, an unusually effective work.
q There is demand for colored teachers
in the public schools in the South, but
the low wages paid make it difficult to,
secure them.
q The Colored Poll Tax League of
New Orleans is urging the people to
pay their poll tax, which in that State
goes to the public schools.
q The turmoil in the colored public
schools of Washington continues. The
initial difficulty arises from a double
ALONG
THE
COLOR LINE
11
school system and a single responsi-
bility. The head of the white schools
is responsible to a board, the majority
of whose members are white. The head
of the colored schools is, on the other
hand, responsible to the white superin-
tendent. All the colored members of
the school board have openly repudiated
R. C. Bruce as unfit for his position
as head of the colored schools, but the
white superintendent maintains that as
Bruce is responsible to him, he must
be allowed time to judge him, as he
himself is a newcomer. All have as-
sented to this fair request, but it leaves
the whole matter unsettled. Most peo-
ple seem to think that Mr. Bruce will
soon be displaced.
q The permanent endowment fund of
Tuskegee Institute, Ala., now amounts
to $1,871,647. There was received dur-
ing the year for operating expenses
$231,724.
CRIME.
The month’s record of crime and
lynching, if carefully scanned, furnishes
a curious commentary on the whole
question of the commission and punish-
ment of crime among colored people in
America.
q All the prisoners arrested for the
Coatesville lynching have been freed.
q The killing of Negroes by white
men in the South is a very common
occurrence. There is a record of four-
teen such cases this month. Usually
the cause is “not learned” or arises
from a street quarrel, or because the
Negro would not obey orders. There
are few records of convictions for such
murders.
q Closely connected with this is the
killing of white men by Negroes. In
some cases this is unprovoked; in most
cases it is apparently the result of a
quarrel. There are ten such murders
reported this month.
CJ A great deal of trouble arises from
the action of policemen. In Jackson-
ville, Fla., a Negro is shot because he
would not obey the command to halt.
In Pennsylvania an officer shoots a
Negro stealing a ride on a train. In
Texas a Negro who refused to stand
when otdered is shot. In Georgia a
policeman beat a Negro nearly to death.
There are perhaps a half dozen other
cases of this sort during the month.
q The opposite case, the slaying of
officers by Negroes, has happened in five
cases.
q The record for lynchings and at-
tempt at lynching is very depressing
for the month.
q Fifteen Negroes seem to have been
lynched. In Arkansas nearly the whole
family of a white man who had a
colored family was killed because the
sons resisted arrest. Six persons, in-
cluding two officers, are dead in this
case.
q In Georgia there is a very curious
case of a lynching of a Negro chauffeur.
Several stories are told as to the reason
of this, none of which sound probable.
q At Pineville, La., two Negroes were
killed and four wounded in a race war.
q In Greenville, S. C., a seventeen-
year-old boy was hanged for alleged
assault on an unknown girl.
q In Georgia a Negro was hanged for
an alleged assault on a woman.
q The accusations of assaults upon wo-
men by colored men have been very
frequent. When they are carefully
investigated it is very difficult to draw
the line between racial insult and real
crime.
q At Shelbyville, Ky., for instance, a
Negro was nearly killed for asking
permission to call on a young white
woman.
q At Harrodsburg, Ky., a ten-year-old
boy was accused of assault. He said
he and the twelve-year-old white girl
were playing.
q In Baltimore a colored man put his
hand on a girl’s shoulder “mumbling.”
He was arrested and charged with
assault.
q In Elizabeth, N. J., a colored man,
in getting off the car, pushed a white
woman off. This resulted in a small-
sized riot.
q All of the above cases are probably
matters of race prejudice, pure and sim-
ple. There follow cases of deliberate
crime, as a murder and assault in Flor-
ida, but here it is not at all certain
that the perpetrator was a colored man.
All that can be said is that he looked
black in the night.
q Near Coatesville, Pa., a girl was at-
tacked by a colored man. Lynching
was threatened, but the girl herself
pleaded with the mob to let the regular
course of the law be followed.
q The crime of white men against col-
ored women is less often reported in
the paper. Indirectly one sees this in
the crimes which arise in houses of ill-
fame. Three cases of this sort, involv-
ing white men, are reported this month.
q From Griffin, Ark., comes a case
where a colored mother of two children
was set upon by the wife of the white
father. The colored woman thrashed
the white woman and the mob imme-
diately appeared. Just then the light-
12
THE CRISIS
ning killed fifteen of the mob and the
writer adds “this country is in the worst
uproar that it has ever been."
G Another case of crime arises from
the attempt of colored laborers to col-
lect their wages. A white man hired
two Negro boys near Charleston, S. C..
to work for him. The boys did the work,
and were refused their pay, and in addi-
tion their mother was beaten into insen-
sibility. The Negroes gathered and ran
the white man out of town.
<3 In Louisiana a Negro was severely
whipped for being insolent to a fireman.
€3 In Texas a Negro was beaten be-
cause he would not pay an alleged debt
to a storekeeper.
€3 At Lake Charles, La., the village
officers arrested some laborers and their
employers proceeded to release them.
<3 The papers of Georgia and other
places continue to urge the summary
arrest of vagrants.
<3 Much trouble arises between Negroes
and conductors on trains and street
cars. Three conducters were killed
this month in such quarrels.
G There are several striking cases of
injustice in the courts: One Negro in
North Carolina was sentenced to death
in fifteen minutes and one in Mississippi
in seven minutes. “Extreme penalty
of the law” is continually imposed on
Negro criminals.
<3 The Brook Haven (Miss.) Leader
says:	“The Negro entered a plea of
guilty and accepted a life sentence in
order to save himself from the fury of
the mob. The jury was impaneled and
everything done secretly that the people
might be half way (at least) satisfied
and the lynching averted.”
*3 In Louisiana a Negro, who was given
a life sentence for killing a relative
accidentally, has at last been pardoned. *
*3 The Tuscumbia (Alabama) Despatch
has this report: “Will Hollinsworth, a
Negro boy who drives the beer wagon
in this city, was arrested Monday for
carrying concealed weapons and after a
trial before Mayor Tompkins, was fined
$50 and costs, which amounted to about
$4, and given sixty days on the street.
It seems the Negro engaged in an alter-
cation with a white boy, and after the
Negro cursed him, the boy knocked
him in the head several times. The
Negro went off and returned with a
pistol, but upon seeing an officer ap-
proaching, threw the weapon into a
barrel nearby. ?Je was detected in this,
however, and arrested with the above
result.”
And the white boy?
In Fort Worth, Tex., passengers and
railroad men in the vicinity of the
Texas and Pacific station threatened to
lynch a Negro man arrested in the com-
pany of a young white woman. The
officers drew their clubs and held the
crowd off until the arrival of the police
patrol.
The prisoners were locked up at the
Central Police Station, but were released
after a short while, because of the
insufficientcy of the technical charge to
hold them.
MEETINGS.
The forty-second annual meeting of
the Women’s Foreign Mission Society
of the Methodist Episcopal Church was
held in St. Louis.
G An Alabama-Georgia Negro singing
convention was held in Anniston and
attracted large numbers.
<| September 22 was largely celebrated
as Emancipation Day in Indiana and
Ohio.
<3 Agricultural fairs are being held in
nearljr every Southern State. Most of
these fairs are independent organiza-
tions, but some of them arc annexed
to white fairs.
<3 In Memphis, Tenn., a Tri-State fair
was held with 20,000 visitors or more.
<3 At Nashville, Tenn., a colored State
fair had the Governor to address them.
They had a health exhibition, a chil-
dren’s day and many other attractions.
G The Jackson County Negro fair of
Tennessee was unusually successful.
There were also colored fairs at Hum-
boldt, Tenn., Glasgow, Ky., Suffolk, Va.,
and in many other places. The Georgia
State colored fair will be held this
month.
One of the most interesting meetings
of the month was the first meeting of
the American Indian Association at
Ohio State University.
CHURCH.
The Methodist Episcopal Church is
commemorating the work of John
Stewart, a colored man, and one of the
first Methodist missionaries to the
Indians.
<3 At the Methodist Fourth Ecumenical
Conference at Toronto all of the Negro
Methodist organizations were repre-
sented and several addresses were made
by colored men.
G Cardinal Gibbons was entertained by
the colored girls of St. Francis Asylum
on the occasion of his double jubilee.
OPINION
THE COATESVILLE FIASCO.
The failure of the Coatcsville jury to
find a verdict against any one of the
indicted members of the mob that burned
the Negro Walker leads the New
York Times to say: “It is, of course, a
fundamental principle of our legal sys-
tem that the man accused of crime shall
be tried not far from the place where
it was committed and by a jury of the
vicinage. That is—or was—an admirable
device to prevent injustice to an innocent
man and to insure the punishment of a
guilty man whose guilt offends his own
community, but the proceedings at
Coatesville illustrate how it works when
his guilt is so widely shared that only
accomplices are available for jurymen.
The prosecution in these cases was futile
because it did not have, as the defense
would have had if conditions as to pre-
judice were reversed, the right to de-
mand a change of venue.
The New York World says:	“The
effect of Pennsylvania’s virtual condona-
tion of lynch law is directly visible in
the second attempt at lynching in Coates-
ville and indirectly in the lynchings of
Negroes reported from all sections of the
country. Is it to be said that it has
remained for a Northern State to cap
the ignominy of mob murder by cloaking
it with the pretense of prosecution and
investing it with a hypocrisy from which
it is free elsewhere?”
Some of the Pennsylvania papers, as
the failure of the prosecution became
apparent, spoke strongly. “Evidently,”
says the Pittsburgh Gazette-Times, “some-
body is obstructing the course of justice.
Is it possible that the worst elements in
Chester County are influential enough to
accomplish that? Hardly. Is it not more
probable that the mysterious power
which is shielding the offenders and nul-
lifying the law is identical with certain
of the supposedly good people of the
community? It will be recalled that
promptly upon a realization of the
enormity of the outrage of that Sunday
night in August there was a systematic
attempt through the press in that part
of the State, by means of communica-
tions and statements, to palliate the
crime and gloss it over as something
which, given like circumstances, might
have happened anywhere. This was
dictated in part by a shame that was
natural and commendable, but in larger
degree by business considerations, by
n desire that nothing should be done
which might effect commercial and
social relations between Coatesville and
the outside * world. Everything was
subordinated to dollars and cents—and
anyway the victim of the lynching was
a particularly no-account black man!”
The York (Pa.) Daily thinks the spirit
of depravity revealed by the cheers
which greeted the acquitted men is
amazing to decent people. The Phila-
delphia Times says: “This, then, puts
the responsibility on the State author-
ities to proceed in a different way to
punish the offense, which is a blot on
the commonwealth itself.”
The Louisville Courier-Journal says:
“The degree of civilization that exists
in a community is determined by the
vigor of prosecutions following lynch-
ings rather than by the crime itself; that
may be committed by the riffraff, but the
administration of the law is, theoreti-
cally at least, in the hands of the most
‘representative’ element.”
The Washington (D. C.) Star thinks
Gov. Tener ought to appoint a commis-
sion of medical men, experts in mental
disorders, to investigate the state of
the public mind of Pennsylvania. “Some-
thing is wrong there.”
THE AFRICAN SITUATION.
The situation between the races in
Africa is becoming rapidly more serious,
and the newspapers here and in Eng-
land make extended comment. The Lon-
don Daily News gives a resume of re-
cent events which is well worth reading:
“The deportation of. a Mr. Galbraith
Cole from British East Africa on the
ground of exciting racial enmity in the
colony will probably provoke newspaper
comment and Parliamentary question-
ing. It comes as the latest of a long
series of episodes which should enforce
upon rational Englishmen some serious
Imperial thinking. Mr. Cole shot a
native who had stolen a sheep, and when
he was charged with murder a white jury
acquitted him offhand. We are informed
by cable from Mombassa that the Brit-
ish African public are ‘astounded’ and
‘highly indignant’ that Mr. Cole should
be deported, for he ‘is allowed to be one
of the most peaceful men in the colony’
and he has never said anything ‘which
could in any way be construed into an
expression of disloyalty or as likelv to
disaffect the natives.’ In short.'Mr.
u Cu1S a moc*c' British East African,
w o has never done anything worse than
kill a native.
14
THE CRISIS
“The British East African ideal of
citizenship seems very like the Rho-
desian. Last month a white man named
Sam. Lewis was tried for the murder of
a native. It was alleged thai the native
had indecently solicited Lewis’s daugh-
ters, and Lewis with the greatest delib-
eration and in cold blood shot the native.
Lewis was acquitted by a white jury
amid the enthusiasm of the white popu-
lation. Neither the Cole case nor the
Lewis case is exceptional. The public
flogging of a native in Nairobi by white
men will be fresh in the memory, and
in Rhodesia it is practically impossible
to get a jury to convict a white man of
an offence against a native.
“Nor is this spirit confined to these
two colonies. Quite recently in Natal a
Boer farmer charged with rape on a
native girl was acquitted, although the
evidence was so clear that the judge told
the accused that he was a disgrace to
his race and his color. To the honor of
South Africa, a distinction should be
drawn between the Cole and the Lewis
cases. The South African press, almost
without exception, condemned the Lewis
verdict as an outrage on justice; there
is no evidence of any such sensitiveness
in East Africa.
“From South Africa comes another
illustration of injustice toward the
native. One result of the Union has
been a movement to unite the various
provincial bars into a South African Ad-
vocates’ Society. With the exception of
the Capetown bar, all the groups of
lawyers were determined to exclude col-
ored lawyers from the society. The
Capetown bar resisted the proposal, and
in the end the society has been formed
without the Capetown bar, on the basis
of the exclusion of colored men. Such
a society apparently would not have Ihe
power to exclude colored men from prac-
ticing, but it would put upon them the
stamp of inferiority and exert a steady
pressure to secure ultimately the closing
of the legal profession to men of color.
“If the policy to which South African
lawyers have deliberately committed
themselves be carried out, the white man
will not merely remove from competi-
tion a rival—he will enslave the race.
Lawyers are presumed to be educated
men, and it is not surprising that a store-
keeper in Rhodesia or Natal should let
himself be carried away by passion when
his natural leaders go so badly astray.
It is clear that in those African colonies
where the white population is very small
and the colored population large, a white
jury cannot be trusted to do justice be-
tween white and black. If that were the
substance of the problem a remedy
-tould be easily found by abolishing trial
'/ jury in such cases. That has recently
en done in Natal, and several South
-ican papers recommend it for Rho-
desia, while it is plainly necessary in
East Africa. But a single mechanical
change of that kind will not cure the
radical vice which consists in the atti-
tude of white toward black. As the
South African News puts it, there is
north of the Vaal an ‘absolute apathy’
of white people where native life is con-
cerned: the native is thought of as ‘a
machine expected to perform so much
labor in a given time, not as a being of
flesh and blood, with likes and dislikes,
passions, it may be vices.’ There can
be no approach to a solution of the color
question in Africa until white men rec-
ognize that Africa is not and can never
be a white man’s country, but must be
a country in which the colored man has
a share, and a human share. In South
Africa, where the Cape provides an en-
lightened nucleus, there is some hope of
wisdom, but in East Africa the Colonial
Office and its representatives must make
good what the colonials themselves can-
not furnish.”
The New York Evening Sun says that
the London Times publishes “conspicu-
ously and without comment” an article
accusing the Colonial Secretary of gross
injustice. It appears from this that the
wrong committed by Mr. Cole was
merely negative—he unfortunately failed
to report what he had done. “Every
other circumstance,” we are told, “was
conspicuously in his favor.” In conclu-
sion it is very hard, the Times corre-
spondent points out, that “a man who
has done splendid work as a settler”
should be sent home “with a stigma on
his name,” when “the worst that can
be said of his action is that in a moment
of great provocation he fired at and
killed a native.” These exalted senti-
ments in the most influential of the Eng-
lish newspapers are instructive in their
way. They will not be . forgotten when
the time comes to moralize on the next
American lynching.
In fact, the London Times is taking
a curiously familiar attitude. “If there
is one thing quite certain,” it remarks,
“it is that all attempts to legislate for
the natives of South Africa in advance
of local white opinion will end in de-
feating their own objects and in further
estranging the two races. The plain
truth is that a final solution of the color
problem is at present altogether beyond
the powers of human statesmanship, and
that the only wise course will be gradu-
ally and patiently to marshal moderate
opinion in all sections on the broadest
common ground attainable without driv-
ing the more circumspect and reason-
able upholders of either view into open
and definite antagonism. The question
is essentially one for the South African
people themselves.”
The Louisville Post, quoting this edi-
torial, says it reads like “the comment
OPINION
15
of a sensible Northern newspaper upon
some action in the South, which does
not accord with the preconceived North-
ern ideas of the race question, but which
commands support because of its strong
common sense. We commend this com-
ment to those Americans who fail to
appreciate the difficulties which confront
the Southern States in this problem."
The Boston Transcript sees some en-
couragement. It thinks the British au-
thorities have done what they could.
Cole is "the son of an earl, but he had
to go just the same.” However, it con-
tinues: "The subject majority in the
South African Union is as 4.780.474
is to the governing minority of 1.278.025.
The race disparity is greater there than
in our ‘black belt.’ An analogy between
our color problem and that confronting
Great Britain is asserted by the London
papers, but the contrast is infinitely to
the British disadvantage. Our Negroes
even in the most benighted localities
have enough of civilization to lift them
high above the savagery of the black
masses of the ‘Union’ and the ‘protec-
torates.’ The analogy is therefore faulty,
but its presentation to British readers
has had the effect of reminding them
that what they have deemed a mote in
their eyes is bigger than what they have
considered the beam in the eyes of their
neighbors."
THE SOCIALISTS AGAIN.
The Socialists are again deeply stirred
over the race question. In the South
the party stands right in some places
and wrong in others. In the North,
where, of course, the vastly greater
number of Socialists are found, the atti-
tude is very good so far, and whenever
prejudice crops up a score of friends
come to the Negro’s defense. There
has recently been a great deal said in
the Socialist press on the subject, be-
cause they understand in the North that
the solidarity of workers is essential
to their movement. The Southern
Socialists do not all appear to see this
and party organizers have reported in
Northern papers, with great indignation,
the attitude they found among many
"comrades" below Mason and Dixon’s
line. In the Coming Nation, a Social-
ist paper of Girard. Kan., Charles Ed-
ward Russell speaks his mind.
Mr. Russell, who is a very prominent
Socialist, is one of the executive com-
mittee of the National Association for
the Advancement of Colored People
and a contributing editor of The Crisis.
He says: "Several gentlemen have been
good enough to write to me in dissent
from some recent remarks in these col-
ums wherein I ventured to suggest that it
might be well to treat colored men with
at least a degree of justice. One of
my correspondents assures me that he
has cancelled his subscription to the
Coming Nation because of those re-
marks, and another, more in sorrow
than in anger, foretells the speedy ruin
of the magazine and its editors if they
persist in uttering such sentiments.
"That being the case perhaps it would
be well now to have a few kind words
together and see if we can come to a
clear understanding about all these
things. To obtain sympathy under false
pretenses is at least as bad as in a like
manner to obtain money. We may as
well understand one another and then
there will be no chance for any suspi-
cion of intellectual bunco.
"These columns were established tor
the purpose of uttering a weekly protest
against such cases of injustice as came
currently within the notice of this maga-
zine. It will not stop to bother with
any consideration of the so-called race
of the victim. It will pay just as little
attention to whether he be black, white,
yellow, brown, red or cream color.
They all look alike to us.
"I hope that is sufficiently explicit.
They all look alike to us.
“And now for a calm survey of facts
about all this. Race prejudice is the big-
gest nonsense in the world, the most
venerable of fakes and the most foolish,
harmful and preposterous.
"In Pennsylvania, the other day, the
smoking car of a local train was about
half full of native gentlemen, when at
a certain station four Italians were seen
to be mounting the platform and about
to enter. Instantly the native gentle-
men seized each two seats, turned them
so that they faced each other, spread
abroad their elegant bodies and their
ample feet until there was left unoccu-
pied not a corner of any seat, and when
the Italians got in they were obliged
to stand all the way to their destination.
"After that a man. not native to these
scenes, asked one possessed of this ad-
vantage what might be the meaning of
the singular spectacle.
“ ‘Why,’ said the native gentleman,
‘didn’t you see them? They was all
dam dagoes.’
" ‘Well?’ said his questioner.
" ‘Why, you don’t suppose I’d sit next
to a dam dago, do you?’
“ ‘Don't you ever think that this coun-
try of yours was discovered by an
Italian?’
“‘Aw, go awn. Watcher givin’ us?
S’pose you can make me believe George
Washington was any dago?’
"‘Well, omitting discussion of that
question, would you mind telling me
why you objected to allowing one of
those Italians to have a seat in this
car?’
‘“Sure I'll tell you. This is a white
man’s country. There ain’t no room
here for dam dagoes. If they don’t
like what they get here, let ’em stay
16
THE
CRISIS
at home. This country’s a place for
white men; it ain’t no place for dam
dagoes’—a sentiment that instantly
awoke responsive applause from all the
other native gentlemen in the car.
* * *
“This reminds me of some other
scenes and observations in my experi-
ence. All these persons hated the
Italians because there were many Ital-
ians in their neighborhood, and Italians
were not white men; but it appeared
upon examination that they professed
their willingness to preserve amicable
relations with other foreigners, all un-
known to them, that they believed to be
white men. They thought that the Ger-
mans, for instance, were probably all
right; and Swedes, they had heard, made
admirable citizens; they were white
men. But these dam dagoes were the
limit; no white men could be expected
to endure them; they were not white
men.
“But it happened that I was brought
up in a community, one-half of which
was German, and I remember that the
native gentlemen in that community
held exactly the same opinions about
the Germans. Other people might be
well enough, Norwegians, Scotchmen
or Welshmen; but these Germans were
the limit. I even recall that the terms
used about them were identical with
those used in Pennsylvania about the
Italians, they were not white men, and
a real native gentleman could not be
expected to get along with anybody
that was not a white man.
“Just over the river in Moline was a
large colony of Swedes, and when I
went to visit in Moline I never failed
to be regaled with the enormities of the
Swedes. It appeared that they were
likewise ‘dam foreigners’ and possessed
of traits that made even the Germans
seem almost attractive.
“I went to school in a town in North-
ern New England where there was a
large settlement of French Canadians
and where the native gentlemen used to
sit around the grocery store every night,
chewing tobacco and expatiating upon
the shortcomings of all French Cana-
dians. It seemed that they also lacked
lamentably of the white man’s essentials
and were very extremely undesirable
persons in a whitp man’s country, and
ought to be made stay at home. Subse-
quently I spent some time in Cedar
Rapids and learned there of the enor-
mities of the Bohemians, who formed
a large part of the city’s population.
In Honesdale, Pa., I was impressed (by
the native gentlemen) with the evil
qualities of the Hungarians; and in
Cleveland, O., gathered that the Lithu-
anians were rank intruders in a white
man’s country. In Wilkes-Barre the
afflictions of a Russian colony were
pointed out to me and in Houston
Street I heard much eloquence about
the unattractive nature of the Jew.
From English sources I learned that the
Irish were the lowest people that
crawled and the Scotch were utterly de-
testable; while I had at all times vivid
recollections of the old pioneer of my
boyhood days and the picturesque lan-
guage in which he could convince any
listener that the Indian was so vile that
he ought to be shot on sight.
“And yet all the time the fact re-
mained, and was easily susceptible of
proof, that the German was exactly
like the Swede and the Hungarian was
exactly like the German, and the Nor-
wegian differed in no essential from the
Italian, and that all were like the
American, so that in the second genera-
tion you could by no means tell one
from the other.
“What then was the gratuitous hatred
toward their own kind?
“Why, the origin was twofold. In
the first place it was an echo of old
jungle days, wherein every skin-clad
forefather of ours snarled at every other
skin-clad fellow because he feared that
there was not enough raw meat for
both of them.
“In the second place, and a far
stronger impulse, it was snobbery pure
and simple. The essence of snobbery is
that I elevate myself by depressing
somebody else; that the extent of my
own elevation is the depth to which I,
can pull another man down; that if I
can successfully feign somebody else
to be so much worse than I am that
he must be hated, then I have estab-
lished myself upon a lofty pinnacle
indeed. There comes to my town a
group of foreigners, strangers, ill at
ease in a country new to them, and
therefore without adequate defense.
The old jungle instinct bids me snarl
at them; the thirst for self-esteem induces
me to treat them as my inferiors. With
the ready assistance of others in my
town that are like minded I have no
difficulty in getting up a sentiment of
hatred against these ‘dam dagoes;' after
that the very food that they eat and the
language of their motherland become
handy materials for my scorn and fer-
tile soil in which to grow more hatred.
The more foreigners the more hatred;
the more hatred the more I delude my-
self into the belief that I am showing
my superiority.
“All of which is mere snobbery run
mad.
“Add to this the terrible results of
a terrible war, the awful crop of linger-
ing passions that such war always has.
and the inevitable position of the Ne-
groes, as the visible cause of that war,
and this is the exact situation in the
South, and the reason why so many
white people there are poisoning their
OPINION
17
own lives by hatred of their colored
neighbors.
“1 admit that it is a situation easily
explained and not unnatural, under the
circumstances. But I don’t see why I
should be expected to help it along.”
COMMON SENSE.
The Reading (Pa.) Herald traces the
Coatcsville horror to Jim Crowism. It
does not believe that even swift and
severe.punishment of the lynchers would
do much good. Education and common
sense are needed a good deal more than
punishment.
“There is something heathenish in the
fancied superiority of the whites over
the blacks,” it says. “It is quite as bad
in its way as the distinctions of caste in
India. ‘A man’s a man for a’ that,’
whether his color be white or black. A
child’s a child for all that, too. Educa-
tion along these lines ought to begin in
our schools and on our playgrounds. The
separation of black and white in the
schools tends to promote a feeling of
superiority on the part of the white
child. He unconsciously imbibes the no-
tion that he is better than the children
of darker hue in another schoolroom.
The caste idea grows up; and from this
gradually the mob spirit and the lynch-
ing fever are generated.
“More than once have we dwelt upon
the peaceable situation in Reading,
where whites and blacks dwell together
in unity, and where many of the Negroes
are of a highly intelligent and enterpris-
ing type. To separate whites and blacks
here, in school or other public places,
would be simply to breed discontent and
a false pride, to erect a harrier and to
provoke hostility.
“If there were real moral and intellec-
tual superiority on the part of the white
man; if the whites had a monopoly of
virtue and intelligence; if the blacks were
all degraded, villainous, dangerous, a bar-
rier might well be drawn for the protec-
tion of the whites and the humbling of
the blacks. But such an assumption is
preposterous. There are many colored
people superior in many ways to recent
European immigrants, and even to whites
who have dwelt in this land for many
years. A man’s color no more proclaims
his respectability than does his wealth.
This truth, we believe, ought to be im-
pressed upon children from their earliest
childhood.”
<| The New York Evening Post says:
“Dr. Booker T. Washington is able to
get around the Jim Crow law in Texas
by chartering a special Pullman car to
take him the 200 miles from Austin to
Temple. He is about to tour the State
with a party of men of both races, as
he has recently made trips in other
Southern States—Mississippi, Tennessee,
Virginia, etc.—in which he has rendered
service of very great value in inter-
preting the races to each other. But,
while Dr. Washington can thus escape
the humiliation of the Jim Crow car,
there are thousands of others of his
race of equal refinement and culture
who have no such way out. They must
go in the rural South into unsanitary,
and dirty cars that look as though they
had never been cleaned; that in ninety-
nine cases out of a hundred are far
inferior to the average white coach, and
this is true despite railroad assertions
to the contrary. Whether those travel-
ing in these cars are ailing or well,
strong or delica-te, their plight is the
same; it is part of the price they pay
for their American birthright! As yet
Dr. Washington has never felt called to
speak out very clearly about this gross
discrimination against his race, in ac-
cordance with his fixed policy of bearing
down upon all the favorable signs of the
times and touching but lightly on the
evils. But if he would speak out, we
believe that he could impress the coun-
try deeply by telling what he knows
about the feelings of the colored people
in regard to the Jim Crow stigma daily
placed upon them.”
<3 The assertion is made that in Texas,
where the chief interest was in the State-
wide prohibition contest, 85 per cent, of
the Negroes voted against prohibition.
“That is an easy assertion to make, but
we would like to know how the poll
was taken,” says the Independent.
“We doubt the figures. The Nash-
ville Tennesseean says that in its State
an equal 85 per cent, of the Negroes are
against prohibition. Again we doubt it,
and we remember that there were other
reasons why Tennessee Negroes voted
for a Democratic Governor. We have
information that in Atlanta there is a
large Negro vote against the saloon.
Let this be understood, that if the saloon
politicians cultivate the Negro vote and
the anti-saloon men hold themselves too
high to do it, they will have no right to
complain if they are beaten by the Negro
vote.”
B. F. Riley, a white man writing in
the National Baptist Union Review
(colored), says, in the course of a warm
attack on race prejudice: “The Negro
must cease to crouch and to crawl. He
must quietly and without show vindicate
his right to live and to prosper, and the
friends will come from the best whites
who will come into control of this
country.”
*3 Senator Vardaman, in his personal
organ, The Issue, remarks:	“The
way to control the Nigger is to whip
him when he does not obey without it,
and another is never to pay him more
wages than is actually mftessary to buy
food and clothing.”
Men of the Month
TWO MUSICIANS.
That Heaven has given colored people
the gift of music is one of the vir-
tues generally allowed the race. This
talent won a somewhat sweeping vic-
MISS JESSIE ESTELLE MUSE
tory at the Yale Music School at New
Haven this year, when of the three
scholarship winners two were colored. In
instrumental music this prize fell to Miss
Helen Eugenia Hagan; in vocal music
Miss Jessie Muse shares honors with
one of the white students, the two divid-
ing the Lockwood scholarship equally.
The Yale Music School is connected
with the university, and its purpose, as
defined by the catalogue, is to furnish
“adequate instruction for those intend-
ing to become professional musicians,
either teachers or composers.” There
were only three colored students in the
school, the third being the sister of Miss
Jessie Muse, so it was particularly
gratifying that two of them should win
the Lockwood scholarships awarded to
the person or persons who had main-
tained the highest standard throughout
the year. At the annual concert given
by the students of the school Miss Muse
sang most creditably the mad scene from
“Lucia.”
Both young ladies will continue their
studies. Miss Muse is already a teacher
in the public schools. Miss Hagan has
the record of being the only student,
white or colored, who ever took the
course in the music school in connec-
tion with school work elsewhere. She
has been going through the high school
at the same time that she followed the
very exacting course in instrumental
music at the Yale school. The teachers
of both young women predict a splendid
future for them.
DR. ALGERNON B. JACKSON.
A recent discovery made by Dr. Alger-
non B. Jackson of Philadelphia has at-
tracted a great deal of attention in the
medical press of this country and Eng-
land. No ailment is less understood
than rheumatism, which Dr. Jackson has
studied for many years and for which
he now suggests a new treatment. He
is careful not to claim magical qualities
for his discovery and points out that it
MISS HELEN E. HAGAN
is only a preliminary report. Later he
hopes to be able to give to the medical
profession a more extensive analysis of
the results he has obtained. His treat-
MEN OF THE MONTH
ment consists of hypodermic adminis-
trations of magnesium sulphate, and Dr.
Jackson has found that patients suffer-
ing from acute articular rheumatism
have responded to it in a gratifying way.
The New York Medical Journal ex-
presses the hope that this discovery, if
it does not prove a specific, “will at least
be sufficiently analgetic and eliminant to
give comfort to thousands."
Dr. Jackson, who has long been known
as a writer on medical topics, is at pres-
ent surgeon-in-chicf to Mercy Hospital,
Philadelphia. For ten years he was
assistant surgeon to the Polyclinic Hos-
pital and the Post Graduate School, but
is now devoting his entire time to Mercy
Hospital as surgeon and research
worker. He was graduated from Jeffer-
son Medical College in 1900. Dr. Jack-
son is a native of Indiana.
CHARLES H. TURPIN.
To win elective office in Missouri is
not, for a colored man, an easy matter.
That Mr. Charles H. Turpin of St. Louis
should be elected one of the State con-
stables is evidence of an unusual per-
sonality. Mr. Turpin is, in fact, the first
colored man to hold elective office in the
State. He was nominated in the direct
primary, over three white competitors,
CHARLES H. TURPIN
DR. A. B. JACKSON
by a plurality of 157, and was elected by
a plurality of 615.
Mr. Turpin has long been identified
with the life of St. Louis, but he was
born in Georgia thirty years or so ago.
His parents moved to Missouri when he
was a baby. He was educated in the
public schools and in a business college.
Before his election to the office of con-
stable he held the position of deputy
assessor and clerk in the recorder’s
office.
THE LATE BISHOP HANDY.
Rt. Rev. James Anderson Handy,
D. D., a retired bishop of the African
Methodist Episcopal Church, died at
Baltimore. James Anderson Handy was
born December 22, 1826, and was the
first son of Ishmael and Nancy Handy.
In the winter of 1S33 young Handy
went to school for three months, and
with the exception of the Sunday school,
that was all the schooling he ever had.
In the course of life he occupied every
position in the Sunday school from pupil
to superintendent and in the church
every position from layman to bishop.
In 1S92 the General Conference, which
met in Philadelphia, elected him bishop,
along with Benjamin F. Lee and Moses
B. Salter. The General Conference
which met in Norfolk. Va.. May, 190S.
placed him on the retired list.
Bishop Handy’s death increases the
number of vacancies on the Episcopal
bench of the African Methodist Church,
and makes much speculation as to the
action of the General Conference next
May. Probablv four or five new bishops
will be elected to rule over the 750.000
members of that church.
THE N. A. A. C. P.
During the past few weeks the National
Association for the Advancement of Col-
ored People has sent out a thousand
letters to representative colored men and
women in all sections of the country,
appealing to them to support the work
financially by becoming members of the
association. Replies to these letters con-
tinue to come in, but the association must
receive the contributions of many more
new members if it is to carry on success-
fully the difficult work which it has
undertaken.
In its fight against the disastrous re-
sults of race prejudice the association
has taken up, among other cases, a very
important civil-rights suit in New Jersey,
which it is now pushing as effectively
as is possible with so little money at
its disposal. The association is eager to
take up the fight against disfranchise-
ment in Oklahoma and has made a be-
ginning in that direction, but it is sadly
hampered by lack of funds. It realizes
to its chagrin that there are many ways
in which the lack of money hinders it
from accomplishing the results it wishes.
Will not the colored people of the United
States rally to the support of this asso-
ciation which is trying to win for them
a second emancipation?
€J The National Association interested
itself some time ago in the case of Earl
Gilchrist, a colored boy in Arkansas,
who killed another boy in a street fight.
He was sentenced to be hanged, although
he is only seventeen years old. The case
was appealed to the Supreme Court, and
the sentence of the lower court has been
sustained. We have been working in
connection with persons interested in
the child-labor situation to arouse some
feeling against the execution of this
child. It will be remembered that in a
somewhat similar case in Delaware we
were successful in securing the commu-
tation of the death sentence to imprison-
ment for life. We are doing all we can
in Arkansas, and we ask readers of The
Crisis to write to the Governor and
protest against sending to the gallows
a boy of seventeen.
The Prosecutor of the Pleas in Ber-
gen County, N. J., writes in regard to
the delayed Bolin case that the Grand
Jury will be in session until the latter
part of November, and that the case
will “receive attention in the near
future.”
<| The Director of Publicity last month
lectured in Washington before three
large audiences, addressed the Teach-
ers’ Association of Gloucester, Mass.,
spoke at a Socialist meeting and at St.
Mark’s and Bethel Churches, in New
York, and also at the White Rose
Mission. At the Labor Temple he is
scheduled to speak on “The Negro and
Organized Labor,” on October 31, and
he will address a large meeting of
Socialists on a similar subject on
November 24.
The Savannah Tribune, a colored
paper, says: “The opening of the public
schools last Monday presented the same
pitiable sight for Negro children as has
been the case for years. Hundreds of
them who were clamoring for cards of
admittance on last Saturday, but were
turned down on account of lack of ac-
commodations, besieged the schools on
Monday morning, early, hoping by some
mere turn of fortune to be squeezed in
on opening day. But the few seats that
were to be filled by the incoming chil-
dren were given out on the day of the
issuance of entrance cards and they
were sent away, the most of them to
idly roam the streets and fall prey to
the evil influences of the city. How sad
it is that year'after year passes and still
no greater school facilities are provided
for the little black boys and girls. They
increase numerically at about the same
rate as do the white children and the
latter are provided with a new school
every five or six years, but the former,
those who are fortunate enough to get
accommodations, must be packed into
the lower grades like so many sardines
in a box; in fact, in some rooms as
many as four to the ordinary two-seat
bench.”
<3 The above clipping illustrates the con-
dition of some of the public-school sys-
tems in the South for colored people.
The association, in conjunction with the
trustees of the John F. Slater Fund and
Atlanta University, is studying this sub-
ject and hopes to have a printed report
ready in a few months.
Cj Mr. Thomas Quincy Ewing, the chair-
man of the National Association’s legal
aid committee, has taken up the Okla-
homa disfranchisement case, which is
being fought by the people of that State.
The case was lost in the lower courts,
but is now being appealed to the Su-
preme Court. Mr. William Harrison, the
lawyer of Oklahoma City, is at the head
of the fight there.
EDITORIAL
THE FIRST EDITORIAL IN THE
FIRST CRISIS, NOVEMBER, 1910.
THE object of this publication is
to set forth those facts and
arguments which show the dan-
ger of race prejudice, particularly as
manifested to-day toward colored peo-
ple. It takes its name from the fact
that the editors believe that this is a
critical time in the history of the ad-
vancement of men. Catholicity and
tolerance, reason and forbearance can
to-day make the world-old dream of
human brotherhood approach realiza-
tion; while bigotry and prejudice, em-
phasized race consciousness and force
can repeat the awful history of the
contact of .nations and groups in the
past. We strive for this higher and
broader vision of Peace and Good
Will.
The policy of The Crisis will be
simple and well defined.
It will, first and foremost, be a
newspaper: it will record important
happenings and movements in the
world which bear on the great prob-
lem of interracial relations, and espe-
cially those which affect the Negro
American.
Secondly, it will be a review of
opinion and literature, recording
briefly books, articles and important
expressions of opinions in the white
and colored press on the race problem.
Thirdly, it will publish a few short
articles.
Finally, its editorial page will stand
for the rights of men, irrespective of
color or race, for the highest ideals
of American democracy, and for rea-
sonable but earnest and persistent at-
tempt to gain these rights and realize
these ideals. The magazine will be
the organ of no clique or party and
will avoid personal rancor of all sorts.
In the absence of proof to the con-
trary it will assume honesty of pur-
pose on the part of all men. North
and South, white and black.
THANKSGIVING.
WHEREAS, it is an old and
goodly custom to give
.thanks to God in the light
of the harvest moon for His mercy
and forbearance toward the Sons of
Men; therefore in the furtherance of
this ancient rite, We,
The Crisis,
By the Grace of God, Guardian of
the liberties of ten dark millions in
this land and of the countless millions
over seas, Defender of the faith of the
Fathers of this Recreant Realm, do
herewith establish and acclaim a day
of Rest and Thanksgiving in every
Negro Home and Church and School
on the last and thirtieth day of this
month, and in the year of the freedom
of the American slave the forty-
seventh.
On this high Holy day Let us thank
God that we do not profess a religion
of human brotherhood which we have
not the moral courage to practice.
Let us thank God that we are a
poor people, toiling in the sweat of
our faces for daily bread and heed-
ing the thunder of Sinai: “Thou shalt
not steal” from the widow* and orphan
and laborer that we may flaunt in
Jewrels and Motor Cars.
Let us thank God that we are not
soldiers or murderers, but have shown
mercy to bird and beast and little chil-
dren, to our fellow women and fellow
men, and that on our dark hands
lies no stain of blood outcrying for
vengeance.
Let us thank God that w*e have set
no foot in the Seat of the Scornful,
but joy to bow with the Persecuted
of the earth, beneath the hand of Him
who will not ahvavs chide, neither
will He keep his anger forever.
And, finally, Let us thank God that
amid the ruin of our hopes and the
shattering of our ideals, beneath the
red hand of the lyncher, and writh the
22
THE
CRISIS
mu
AN ARAB SCHOOL IN NORTH AFRICA:
Studying and Reciting the Mohammedan Koran.
24
THE CRISIS
laughter of our enemies without, chim-
ing to the surrender of cowardice
within, we yet can listen to the song
of birds and see the sunlight on the
hills and know that within lies a Soul
unconquered and unconquerable.
Thus in that day shall we thank
Almighty God, and, having thanked
Him, we shall further say:
“Lord, what wilt Thou have us
to dor
Speak, that the dark and serried
hosts wild with weird waiting at the
armposts of Thine awful throne may
know Thy will. Thy will be done,
be it War or Peace, Death, or, heavi-
est of all, the long and ever longer
silence in which we bow to crucifixion
and burning, to lying and insult, to
the spoiling of our sons and ruin of
our daughters—even this, O God:
Thou art the Lord!
Given under our hand and seal
on the first anniversary of our
founding.
The Crisis.
THE CENSUS.
IT will be interesting to hear the
American chorus when the popu-
lation figures of the census of
1910 are published. They will show
naturally a large increase of whites
and a small increase of colored people.
Then we will have a long howl of glee
from the Negro baiters, a sigh of de-
licious content from the North and a
puzzled silence from black folk. And
why?
The South will say:
The decreased rate of increase of
Negroes during the last decade was
lower than ever before. It grows pro-
gressively lower. Therefore the Negro
is dying out.
The North will say:
It is providential—the physique of
inferior races, etc., etc.
Yet what are the facts? They are
as plain as day:
The Negro population is increasing
as fast as any normal modern folk.
The increase of the whites in the
United States is not normal. Their
birth rate in every normal white coun-
try is decreasing far more rapidly
than that of the Negro. The white
American situation is abnormal
through an immense immigration.
Even the so-called “native whites of
native parents” are largely those whose
grandparents migrated and those who
forgot about the nativity of their
parents. The mass of Southern native
whites show all the marks of careless-
ness due to sudden economic affluence.
From an economic position below
slaves they have in a single genera-
tion been raised almost to the mod-
ern wage level. The result is big
families.
Now, to compare this temporary
abnormal increase of whites in Amer-
ica with the more normal increase of
colored people is silly. The facts con-
cerning colored folk are well known:
They have practically no immigra-
tion.
They are under severe economic
repression.
They are under a mental and moral
strain such as no group outside the
Jews and Finns in Russia are to-day
suffering.
Despite this they are increasing
as fast as the English, nearly as fast
as the Germans and far faster than
the French. They are without reason-
able doubt increasing much faster
than the original New England stock
or the Quaker stock or any of the
earlier settlers of America.
With this large increase is going
an economic betterment which is as-
tounding when we remember the han-
dicap, and is clearly shown in the
agricultural and property statistics.
And, finally, when all is said, remem-
ber that to-day there are ONE MIL-
LION more colored people in America
than there were in 1900.
Remember that, allowing for every
probable decrease in birth rate in the
future, Americans will live to see
15,000,000 of colored people by 1950,
and if the present tendencies persist
these millions, because of their wealth
and intelligence, will be less easily in-
sulted, less easily scared into silence,
less easily imposed upon by their own
demagogues and, as Mr. Dooley has
it, less “aisily lynched.”
EDITORIAL
25
“SOCIAL EQUALITY.”
WE are with great assiduity
collecting practical defini-
tions of “social equality.”
We say “practical” because the theo-
retical argument has gone quite insane.
Here comes this month, The Mission-
ary Voice, a well-disposed organ of
the Southern white Methodists. In
reviewing a pamphlet published by
Atlanta University the Voice remarks
concerning the editor that he is “well
known as the leader of those Negroes
who desire social equality for their
race—a desire which crops out, here
and there, through this pamphlet. The
fact that no Southern white nor the
wisest Southern blacks would sanc-
tion this desire for one moment does
not lessen the impressiveness of this
study of Negro effort to uplift the
Negro race.”
Here we have a faint clue as to
what the South means by “social
equality” with black folk. The pam-
phlet in question is entitled “Efforts
for Social Betterment Among Negro
Americans.” It treats of the charity
of church and school, of women’s
clubs, homes, orphanages and hospi-
tals, nurseries, settlements, etc. This
does not look dangerous. Just where
social equality “crops out” here it is
hard to say, unless the South means
by this phrase every effort of black
men to be treated like other men.
And this is what the South does
mean. Because it means this it
plunges into either contradiction or
helplessness when Southern religion
strikes the color line. In this same
magazine, for instance, there occurs
the following passage:
“The Methodist Episcopal Church,
South, is doing very little directly for
the Southern Negro socially, educa-
tionally or religiously. The Board of
Education appropriates $14,000 an-
nually to the schools of the colored
Methodist Episcopal Church, but the
only Southern white Methodists that
have any personal relation to any of
these schools are three teachers in
Paine College. Educationally the
Negro needs the personal touch of the
Christian white man. If we want to
do ‘social service/ no better place to
begin can be found than among the
Negroes in our towns and cities.”
Does not the Missionary Voice rec-
ognize that there can be no true “so-
cial service” or “personal touch”
without “social equality?” Was it
not the fact that Jesus Christ became
the social equal of publicans, sinners
and prostitutes that made Him the
Great Teacher? How much more is
social equality with honest laborers
who are striving upward absolutely
necessary for those who would really
uplift? Tlris is the whole movement
of the age, and the South is whirling
in a back eddy, damming progress and
trying at once to avoid hypocrisy and-
yet teach the black at arm's length
with a club in one hand and a Bible
in the other.
This Missionary Voice is the voice
of earnest, honest people. They are
striving toward the light, but they
have not reached it, and they are con-
sequently illogical. The only logical
folk in the South to-day are the Var-
danians and Tillmans. They hold no
illusions and know that you cannot
treat a man as a man and as a beast
at the same time. Therefore, they
argue, treat Negroes as beasts. When
will logic come to the better South
and enable it to arise and say: “I
dare despise nothing human. I am not
better than my black neighbor.”
CHRISTIANITY RAMPANT.
HOW long is practical Chris-
tianity going to be able to sur-
vive its own hypocrisy? How
long is the world going to be able to
profess a system of unselfish ethics,
of lofty ideal, which it does not pre-
tend to practice? If the augurs of
Rome laughed at each other as they
passed, how long at the present rate
will Christian ministers be able to
keep straight faces?
At least we trust for the good of
the world that the Christian mission-
aries whQ, go to the Mohammedan
lands in the future will go to learn
rather than to teach. What will they
say to the latest exhibition of pure
Christian brigandage on a weaker peo-
ple? Why is Europe in general and
Italy in particular falling afoul of
26
THE CRISIS
Turkey? Is it because of Turkish
misrule? No, Europe has been able
to stand that a thousand years. No,
but as soon as the revolution and up-
lift came—as soon as the young Turks
and the whole Mohammedan world
showed signs of regeneration—then it
was that the professed followers of
the meek and lowly Jesus became
shameless highwaymen. Austria seized
one juicy bit; Montenegro put her
hand on another, but found it too hot.
Whereupon her ruler’s son-in-law,
King of Italy, saw a divine mission.
He saw a chance to distract Italians
from their own parlous' condition by
•a debauch of conquest. The Jingo
yelled, the soldier burnished his tinsel,
and the Church, which no Italian
blandishments of peace had been able
to subdue, hastened to put its divine
blessing on murder. There have been
some pretty shameless wars in modern
history, but Italy’s conquest of Tripoli
tops them all. Civilization will yet
pay for this murderous debauch, and
Christianity hang her head in shame.
“EZEKIELISM.”
WE offer no apology for coin-
ing a new long needed Eng-
lish word. We simply pause
to acknowledge our indebtedness to
Miss Pratt and Miss Ovington and
to recommend our readers to know
the former’s stories and to commit to
memory the last chapter of “Half-a-
Man.”
“Ezekielism” is the assumption that
the faults of any particular individual
are the innate faults of his group and
that any virtues he may possess are
peculiar to him and quite exceptional
so far as his group are concerned.
“Racial” faults and “exceptional”
virtues are the rock foundation of
“Ezekielism.” The person who pro-
poses to “Ezekielize” begins invariably
with a phrase: “Now / have no pre-
judice.” By this phrase ye shall know
them—“/ have no prejudice—BUT.”
That is the main statement and the
ending is immaterial. It may be any
one of these or a dozen others:
I know a Negro who steals.
I know a Jew who cheats.
I know an Italian “black hander.”
I know a woman who is frivolous.
I know a white man who led a mob.
After that persons afflicted with this
form of hysteria proceed to “Ezekiel-
ize” and, lo! we learn that:
Negroes steal.
Jews cheat.
Italians murder.
Irishmen drink.
Women are silly.
White folk lynch.
You may expostulate : “But *1 know
one Negro------”
“Exception,” whispers your friend
and the “Ezekielism” is complete.
Now, such travesty on logic cannot
be used on all races with impunity,
because some races have sense enough
to fight back. When a New York
chief of police ventured to charge Jews
with a large share of the crime of
the city he lost his job. When Louisi-
ana took to lynching Italians the
United States Government paid a tidy
sum; Boston and New York used to
find no words too contemptuous for
Irishmen, but the Lord or somebody
else has touched their hearts recently;
and so forth.
To-day it is only the Negro who is
the unquestionable victim of “Ezekiel-
• ism.” I approach a school principal
with my child, along with a dozen
other races. To the Italian, the Jew,
the Irishman, the Yankee, he says:
“How is Mabel? What of Bridget’s
arithmetic? Is Miriam strong? Can
Assunta spell?” But, looking my child
over, he says, reflectively: “Negroes
have never done well in this school.”
I do not remind him that the school
lias had but two solitary little black-
waifs in twenty years. I do not lose my
temper, for victims of “Ezekielism”
are not responsible and one must allow
for them. So I sigh and remark:
“Indeed!”
Or I present to a philanthropist the
case of a decent woman who is re-
fused food at Shanley’s or Childs’ or
some other restaurant. He looks at
me disapprovingly and says, shaking
a fat finger:
“I’ve been trying to get a cook----”
Then I know that he has a case of
“Ezekielism” and I go.
A Year of Segregation m Baltimore
By W. ASHBIE HAWKINS
For many years the great majority of
the Negroes of Baltimore had their
homes, their churches and what busi-
W. ASHBIE HAWKINS
Who conducted the first law case
ness places they possessed in the cen-
tral, southern and eastern sections of
the city. Here and there in other sec-
tions—the western, northern and north-
western—there were a few colored resi-
dents, of course, but their homes, with
few exceptions, were on the narrow
alleys or streets.
Beginning in the early eighties a quiet
movement to the more favored sections
of the city, notably the northwestern,
was begun and has continued until the
present. It was greatly accelerated
about 1898, when Sharp Street Memorial
Methodist Episcopal Church, one of the
oldest, if not the oldest, and most promi-
nent of our city churches, began the
erection at Dolphin and Etting Streets
of its handsome house of worship; and
a few years later when the colored high
school was removed from the business
section of the city to Dolphin Street and
Pennsylvania Avenue, and when Union
Baptist Church, one of the strongest
religious forces in the community, dedi-
cated its new home on Druid Hill Ave-
nue, but a short distance from the other
institutions just mentioned.
Condemnation of large blocks of prop-
erty in South Baltimore for the use of
the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Company
compelled a great number of our people
to seek homes elsewhere, and the most
natural course was to follow this migra-
tion to the northwest. The “invasion”
of Russians and other foreigners in East
Baltimore in like -manner forced many
of our people there to seek other quar-
ters, and to the northwest they went
also. Persons coming to the city in
search of business, educational or pro-
fessional opportunities naturally sought
the section occupied by the prosperous,
and where the best houses were to be
obtained. In East Baltimore, or Old
Town, as it is popularly known, and
the other older parts or the city the
houses for the most part which were
open to rent or purchase by our people
were not always modern in their con-
struction and appointment, and so when
the great northwest with its splendid
houses on wide streets, amid sanitary
surroundings, were opened for rent and'
purchase the opportunity was eagerly
grasped.
Another cause for which the black man
is in no way responsible lies in the
opening and development of large sub-
urban tracts for residential purposes by
the middle class of whites. Their
migration to the suburbs threw great
blocks of handsome houses on the mar-
ket, and they had to be disposed of to
anybody, and often on any terms. Bal-
timore was for years without any great
suburbs, but with the coming and de-
velopment of her cable and electric cars
reaching out in every direction, these
have grown with great rapidity and
often at the expense of city market
values.
Druid Hill Avenue on the east, Dol-
phin Street on the south, Gilmore Street
on the west and North Avenue on the
north, a territory covering approxi-
niately ten blocks square and compris-
ing some of the city's chief residential
streets, is the section mostly affected by
this Negro “invasion.” More or less
friction had been caused whenever a
block was invaded—in several instances
harsh measures were taken, such as
breaking the window lights, putting tar
on the white marble steps, and in other
ways mutilating the property. In one
or two cases the families moving in were
frightened away, but the great majority
stuck, and after a short time the excite-
ment wore off. the whites either moving
themselves or resigning gracefully to
their fate.
28
THE CRISIS
THE OLD TYPE OF NEGRO ALLEY
It may be remarked in passing that
no whites in business in this territory
have moved on account of this “inva-
sion” except where Negro competition
in the same line has made their business
unprofitable. To-day by far the greater
number of grocery and notion stores,
the saloons and the tailoring and clean-
ing establishments are in the hands of
white men, and they give no indication
whatever of surrendering their oppor-
tunities to make money by these same
people whose presence in a neighbor-
hood seems so objectionable to many
of their race.
Druid Hill Avenue was, as I have just
said, the eastern boundary line of this
territory. Occasionally on streets within
this section differences would arise when
Negroes would move into a block where
only whites lived, but for the most part
there seemed a tacit understanding that
this section belonged to the Negro and
that he was not to be further disturbed
in his possession of the same, provided
he was content therewith, and would not
further “encroach” on the whites.
One fine morning, however, in the
month of June, 1910, the residents of
the 1800 block of McCulloh Street, east
of Druid Hill Avenue, woke up to the
knowledge that a house therein had been
purchased by a colored man, and pretty
soon after they witnessed the disquiet-
ing spectacle of a colored family mov-
ing in. It made no difference that the
head of this family was a lawyer in
good standing at the bar of this city,
that he is. a graduate of Yale University,
that the wife is an educated woman, a
high school graduate, and before her
marriage a teacher of ability in the State
of Indiana; that, in short, this was a
cultured and educated family striving to
live decently and to rear their children
in as good environments as they could
secure.
Immediately a call was issued for a
meeting of the greatly offended citizens,
most of whom didn’t own the property
they occupied, nor any other, and with
this start for weeks and months these
hitherto obscure personages managed to
keep themselves in the limelight by their
appeals to race prejudice, their indigna-
tion meetings and newspaper interviews,
by conniving at the conduct of hordes of
half-grown and badly raised young men,
who sought all means of harassing or
embarrassing this family and their visi-
tors. That actual harm to life and limb
was not sustained by some, if not all the
members of his family, is due largely to
the patient care of the police officers on
this beat, who knew the conditions of
the neighborhood well, and who. because
of this knowledge, were enabled to sub-
due a number of young ruffians who had
the nerve to do rash acts, but hadn’t
the courage to answer for them after-
ward.
Inspired by this agitation and the
opportunity it gave for achieving a little
popularity, a briefless lawyer named
Milton Dashiell and George W. West,
a member of the City Council, conceived
THE NEW TYPE OF NEGEO HOME
the West Segregation Law, meant to
prevent any further invasions of this
character. This law, briefly stated, pro-
vided a penalty for any black man who
would move into, or attempt to occupy,
a house in a block where 51 per cent,
or more of the houses therein were
occupied by whites, and vice versa. It
undertook also to punish the owner or
agent of the property renting it. Excep-
tion was made in the case of servants. No
attempt was made to restrain the sale
or purchase of property anywhere or to
anybody. After a long and tedious
course through the City Council, at-
tended by dramatic hearings of those fa-
voring and those opposing the measure,
it was finally adopted and signed by
Mayor Mahool on December 10, 1910.
In a very short time the first “arrest”
was made for violation thereof. I use
the word arrest, but in a strictly legal
sense there was no arrest. The police
officers with a caution, inspired by fear
of future suits for false arrest, satisfied
themselves, if not the law, by simply
notifying the accused to appear at a
stated time at the station house. In less
than a month there were just twenty-six
of these cases sent to court, and in no
instance was there the slightest effort
to treat those people as criminals. To
emphasize possibly the difference be-
tween the races in the matter, one jus-
tice of the peace, under my observation,
finding that the white agent had no
property, released him on his own rec-
ognizance, and then took him as bonds-
man for his colored tenant.
There were some humorous incidents
connected with the execution of the law
which, as afterward proved, was most
unskilfully drawn. A white person who
had temporarily removed from his home
while needed repairs were being made
to the same found, upon attempting to
return, that this wonderful law had
placed his house in a block 51 per cent,
colored, and that to return to his own
home would make him a criminal, sub-
ject to fine and imprisonment.
In a short time, less than a month,
the first case under the law was heard
on demurrer before Judges Harland and
Duffy of the Supreme Bench of this city,
and without going into the merits of
such legislation this law was declared
ineffective and void because it was in-
accurately drawn. “Stets” were entered
by the State’s Attorney in all the other
“cases” on the docket in the Criminal
Court, and thus ended the first chapter
in the attempt to segregate the Negroes
of Baltimore.
The partizans of this wrong were not,
however, to be outdone by such a thing
as an adverse court decision: it seemed
to inspire them with a new determina-
tion to push further their war into
Africa. Indeed, they affected to see in
the court’s decision a method of pro-
cedure, and forthwith the legislative
30
THE CRISIS
•v
V
l
" *?
<■
A WHITE CHTJECH
Bought by Negroes
father of the bill dropped the author of
the first measure to seek the aid and
assistance of more eminent counsel, and
the Hon. William L. Marbury was re-
tained to draw another law. Milton
Dashiell, however, saw* too much of
glorv and a possible clientage for him-
self in the matter to allow West or any-*
body else to drop him thus unceremoni-
ously, and so in due time he appeared
at the door of the City Council armed
with another measure and seeking its
introduction therein. He was not suc-
cessful in this, but he called the atten-
tion of West and his followers to the
possibility of a break in the ranks of the
"segregationists,” and of all things, not
desiring this, differences were soon
patched up and the public duly informed
that the Hon. Milton Dashiell and the
Hon. William L. Marbury were collabo-
rating in their efforts to evolve a law
that would stand the tests of the courts.
After some considerable delay, evi-
dencing the trouble these distinguished
draughtsmen had in getting together a
measure satisfactory to themselves, the
new ordinance was presented to the City
Council and was duly enacted April 7,
1911. It differs from the other in that
the title more aptly conforms to the con-
stitutional requirements; the meaning of
the term “block” is defined with greater
exactness, and there is a large number
of legal phrases thrown in to give it
professional color and distinction, but
it is the opinion of both lawyers and
laymen that it is as illegal as the former,
and while skilfully drawn it is meaning-
less and ineffective. Its author is a
rampant Negro hater, and like so many
others of his kind he has often allowed
his prejudices against us to blind him to
the force and effect of a legal term.
Shortly after the passage of the sec-
ond ordinance it was discovered that
one of the rules of the City Council had
been overlooked or violated, and to make
assurance doubly sure it was reintro-
duced in the Council, passed again by a
strict party vote—all the Democrats vot-
ing for it and all the Republicans against
it, and on May 15, as one of the last acts
of his administration of the city’s affairs,
Mayor Mahool affixed his signature to
it, and for the third time this infamous
measure took its place among our local
statutes.
To date two "arrests” have been made
under the law, one of the victims dis-
missed and the other awaits trial at the
present term of the Criminal Court.
Twelve Negro families, instead of one,
are living in the 1800 block of McCul-
loh Street, the center of the disturbance.
Ten idle houses in the same block and
hundreds in other "mixed” blocks are
eating up their values in taxes, ground
rent, insurance, etc., waiting for white
tenants who won’t come, and colored
tenants who are doubtful about any at-
tempt on their part to test the merits of
the new Segregation Law. One small
religious organization has been forced
by the police to cease holding their serv-
ices in a "white” block, and a civil suit
involving their rights in this matter is
likely to be called for trial any day. The
city is full of so-called "mixed blocks,”
where whites and blacks can both live,
or move at random, to the end of time,
and nobody be any the better or worse.
Up to this time the West Segregation
Law has caused little hardship to any
Negro, is giving him trifling concern and
no worry, but on the contrary is causing
loss to many white property owners who
can’t sell or rent their property for want
of white buyers or tenants, and by the
refusal of responsible Negroes to take
up the burden of testing the validity of
the law, leaving that expensive luxury
to those who cither caused its passage
or indifferently sat by while the ene-
mies of both whites and blacks were
pushing it through the City Council.
SOME HEADLINES
[The Crown is a paper published in
Newark, N. J., “in the interests of prac-
tical religion." Its editor interprets this
mission to include attacking race preju-
dice on every occasion, and we have be-
fore this quoted his burning and witty
editorials. He recently published an ex-
tremely clever and suggestive essay on
the psychology of newspaper headlines,
which we reproduce almost in full.]
The daily papers always call attention
to the fact that a crime was committed
by a Negro. This is quite right. It is a
matter of social interest to know how
crime is distributed between whites and
blacks, as also between native born and
foreign born. It is in the way of calling
attention to the color of the crime that
the wrong lies.
The newspaper method of indicating
this is to say that the criminal is a
Negro, if he is, but if he is a white man
to say nothing about his color, leaving
that to be inferred. This course is
adopted because there are so many more
whites than Negroes, and hence it is nec-
essary to print the word “Negro" or “col-
ored" much less often than it would
the word “white." The rule would be a
good one, if people would only apply it
rightly. But they do not, and they can-
not be taught to do it.
Here is how it works out: The reader
sees after the name of a lawbreaker the
word “Negro" or “colored.” He sees this
word day after day, and almost always
associated with crime. He never sees
the word “white" in this relation. And
thus little by little, without his being
aware of it, the impression is made on
his mind that the Negro is a great crimi-
nal. The white murderer is merged with
the criminal class, whereas the Negro
murderer is identified, not with the non-
descript criminal class, but with the
Negro race. Thus the Negro race is
made to bear the odium of its crime,
which is just; but the white race is re-
lieved of the odium of its crime, which
is unjust.
The disadvantage of the Negro is that
in apportioning crime between whites
and blacks only an act of the senses,
namely, of the sight, is required by the
reader of the newspaper to connect the
Negro with crime; whereas in the case
of the white a mental act is needed. Ad-
vertisers well understand the value of a
repeated appeal to the eye, and that is
why, month after month, they repeat the
catchy phrase or picture. The mind in-
sensibly becomes habituated to it. So,
too, when newspapers day after day re-
peat Negro and crime, Negro and bur-
glar, Negro and murder, Negro and
assault, the mind of the reader auto-
matically comes to regard the Negro as
spending his time in committing crime.
Take it in another field. Suppose that
the newspapers, thought it important to
indicate the division of crime between
Protestants and Catholics (never mind
the Jews just now). And suppose that
because the Catholics are so much fewer
the papers should do as they do with
the Negro, that is, indicate the word
Catholic, but leave the word Protestant
to be inferred. Would any papers dare
do this? And why not? Because the
Catholics would not stand it; and they
would be right. No matter what the
facts, people would come to think of
Catholics as criminal above others. “The
papers," they would say, “are full of
crimes by Catholics." If they were re-
minded that their own Catholic friends
and acquaintances were not criminals—
why, those are exceptions—the rule still
holds that Catholics are criminals.
Now what is the remedy? For one
thing, it can be assumed that newspapers
will continue to apportion crime between
white and black people. But let it be
done fairly. Let us see how this sug-
gestion would work out. I take this
morning’s paper, and scan the items of
crimes. As it happens, on this July 5,
there is not a single offence imputed to
a Negro. Evidently they spent Inde-
pendence Day becomingly. Every crime
reported on that day was committed by
a white man. Yet the reader would never
think of this significant fact, simply be-
cause his attention is not called to it.
But suppose it were. Suppose that after
the name of each person accused of
wrongdoing in the newspaper this morn-
ing the word “white" should follow, as
the word “Negro" or “colored" would.
Here is how the record would look:
JANITOR (WHITE) TAKES LIFE
OF TENANT.
YOUTH (WHITE) WANTONLY
SLAYS BOY.
MAN (WHITE) PUTS FATAL BUL-
LET INTO RIVAL WHO DE-
FENDED GIRL’S NAME.
SIX ON STOOP SHOT BY MAN
(WHITE) ACROSS STREET.
TWO BURGLARS (WHITE) HIT IN
FURIOUS BATTLE WITH
POLICE.
32
THE CRISIS
CROWD ALMOST KILLS THUG
(WHITE) AFTER ATTACK.
ATTACKED BY ROUGHS (WHITE)
A VISITOR (WHITE) FROM OUT
OF TOWN MORTALLY WOUNDS
ONLOOKER.
GOVERNMENT AFTER SMUG-
GLERS (WHITE).
OFFERS TO EXPOSE BAND OF
ROBBERS (WHITE) IF
RELEASED.
HIGH JINKS BY HUSBAND
(WHITE) ALLEGED BY
WIFE.
KILLED FRIEND WHO SPLASHED
HIM (WHITE).
FIND TRAIL OF TWO OF WEI-
GEL’S MURDERERS (WHITE).
YEGGS (WHITE) BLOW SAFE IN
BALDWIN.
SHOOTS DETECTIVE FOUR TIMES
AND IS SHOT TWICE HIM-
SELF (WHITE).
TWO BURGLARS (WHITE) ARE
SHOT IN BATTLE WITH
POLICEMAN.
Now the comment of the .reader on
these news items, so set forth, would be:
“How good the colored people were yes-
terday. The whites seem to have been
making all the trouble.” The Negroes
would receive credit for their clean rec-
ord, as they should. As it is, nobody
gives them a thought; and nobody gives
them a thought except when they go
wrong; and then all are blamed for the
sin of a few.
The Next Day.—This morning’s paper,
has no Negro crime reported either!
This is interesting. Now. as for yester-
day’s criminal chronicle, so for to-day’s
let us put it in plain words that these
supposed criminals were white, as it
would be plainly set forth that they were
black:
SWINDLE CHARGED AGAINST
TWO MEN (WHITE) OF GOOD
FAMILY.
ECHOES OF GRAFT (BY WHITE
MEN) FOLLOW DISCHARGE
OF CITY FIREWORKS.
BURGLAR (WHITE) SON OF BANK-
ER ADMITS LOOTING EIGHT-
EEN HOMES.
FASHIONABLE DAKOTA SCENE
OF FIERCE FIGHT (BY
WHITES).
SEES SON (WHITE) JAILED FOR
LIFE.
REICHMANN (WHITE) IS OUT ON
BAIL.
WOMAN LANDS THIEF (WHITE)
AFTER A HARD FIGHT.
EX-POLICEMAN (WHITE) CAUGHT
PASSING “PHONY” CHECK.
PLOT (BY WHITES) TO KIDNAP
MRS. JENKINS A SAD FAILURE.
BLACK-HAND LETTER SENT TO
OIL MAGNATE BY DETEC-
TIVE (WHITE).
HIS PICTURE HER WEAPON
(BOTH WHITE).
Next Day.—Again the paper has no
item of crime by a Negro. What is the
matter? Have they struck? Not, at
least, to hurt anybody.
Here is the police record for the day:
MILLIONAIRE HOTEL PROPRIE-
TOR AND THE TWO WOMEN
CONFRONT EACH OTHER
. (ALL WHITE).
MAN (WHITE) FINED FOR KISS-
ING GIRL.
ROBBERS (WHITE) BIND AND
GAG A WOMAN.
GRAFT IN STATE PRISONS (BY
WHITES).
MEAT PACKERS (WHITE) AR-
RAIGNED.
POLICE CAPTAIN (WHITE) LIES
AND IS DEGRADED.
HIGH-BORN THIEF (WHITE) HAS
TRUNK FULL OF LOVE
LETTERS.
HUSBANDS (WHITE) DOING TIME
APPEAL TO SPOUSES.
WILL TAKE BACK RUNAWAY
WIFE (WHITE).
The Next Day.—And still no Negro
wrongdoing in the paper! This virtue is
becoming monotonous. If it were not
for the whites, the papers would not be
worth reading. Here is yesterday’s white
list:
GEM SMUGGLING (WHITE).
MURDER AND SUICIDE IN A BAL-
LOON (BOTH WHITE).
SUES FOR DIVORCE (BOTH
WHITE).
BOARDER (WHITE) ARRESTED AS
THIEF.
WITNESS ABDUCTED AND MADE
DRUNK (ALL CONCERNED
WHITE).
POLICE CLUBBER (WHITE) TO
PRISON.
BURGLAR’S (WHITE) CLEAN
SWEEP.
INVESTMENT FAKERS (WHITE).
AUTOIST (WHITE) BREAKS A
MAN’S LEG.
POLICEMAN (WHITE) ACCUSED
OF EXTORTION.
NEW DIVORCE COMPLAINT
(BOTH PARTIES WHITE).
FATHER (WHITE) DESERTS
MOTHERLESS CHILDREN.
TOO FOND OF “NIECES” (ALL
CONCERNED WHITE).
WOMEN’S CLUBS
COLORED AMERICAN WOMEN	By Dr. SUSAN M. STEWARD
[From a paper read before the Races Congress.]
The Afro-American women have dis-
tinguished themselves along so many
lines that there is not time for me to
tell you in detail what they have accom-
plished. Only a very few of the women
DR. S. M. STEWARD
can be named as the “beacon lights’*
of the groups they represent.
In literature our lirst known writer of
a book was Phyllis Wheatley, a native
African woman, brought to America in
1761. Being a poet by nature, placed
under conditions for the best physical,
mental and moral development, a few
years later she astonished the literary
people of America and Europe with her
wonderful intellectual ability. Her book,
“Poems on Various Subjects, Religious
and Moral,” was published in London in
1773, and was dedicated to the Countess
of Huntingdon.
A long period intervened between the
giving of this .volume to the world by
Phyllis Wheatley and the appearance of
another. The next distinguished writer
was Mrs. Frances Ellen Watkins Harper,
who published a book of poems of high
order in 1S6S. She was a great temper-
ance lecturer and an enthusiastic suf-
fragist. During this long interval, how-
ever, the work of many of our women
writers found ready acceptance at the
hands of the publishers of the Atlantic
Monthly and of Mr. Garrison’s paper,
The Liberator.
A book recently published by one of
our women is entitled “The Work of
the Afro-American Women.” “It is
worthy of note, as well as of congratu-
lation, that colored women are making
great advancement in literary ventures.
When the women of any race become
intelligent and active in literary pursuits
that race has acquired the greatest guar-
antee of success.” Thus writes Benja-
min F. Lee, D. D., bishop of the A. M. E.
Church, in appreciation of this book
written by Mrs. N.- F. Mossell of Phila-
delphia.
Many women have made their mark
in journalism. Some have edited papers
of . their own, in the interest of the race,
and others have been employed in the
editorial departments of papers belong-
ing entirely to the white race, as the
Philadelphia Press, Golden Days and the
Boston Herald.
The most widely known of these
journalists is Mrs. Ida B. Wells Barnett.
Because of her bold defence of the men
of the race and her denunciations of
lynching as carried on in the Southern
States, her paper, Free Speech, was de-
stroyed, and she was banished from her
home in Memphis, Tenn. Through her
lectures in the North and in Europe she
aroused a sympathy and a sentiment that
brought into existence the following so-
cieties: The Society for the Recognition
of the Brotherhood of Man in Scotland,
the Anti-Lynching Committee in Eng-
land and in America the Central Execu-
tive Council of America. The members
of these societies were among the most
distinguished men and women in Europe
and America.
As lecturers we have had. and now
have, women of strong character and in-
tellectual ability. Our brightest lights
in this field, known in Europe as well
as America, are Miss Hallie Q. Brown,
a graduate of Wilberforce University,
Ohio; Mrs. Amanda Smith, and Mrs.
Mary Church Terrell, a graduate of
Oberlin College. Ohio.
There are said to be 25,000 colored
teachers in the United States, and of
this number the women are largely in the
majority. In many cities of the North
are “mixed schools.” where the teachers
and pupils both are white and colored.
34
THE CRISIS
The agitation that brought about the
mixed schools in the city of New York
was the demand on the part of the col-
ored teachers for equal rights for teach-
ers as well as for pupils. Mrs. S. J.
Garnet, the principal of No. 81, was the
prime mover in this cause.
Our women are represented in the
trades and professions. The first colored
young woman in the United States to
graduate in medicine was Miss Susan M.
Smith, of Brooklyn, N. Y., who gradu-
ated in 1870, as valedictorian of her class.
Now we can number nearly one hundred
women physicians. There are many hun-
dred trained nurses, some pharmacists
and dentists, a few lawyers, and even
some ministers.
There are many women who rank as
stars in the musical world, both vocalists
and instrumentalists. Two of these are
said to have reached the “top round” of
the ladder—Madame Selika and Ma-
dame Hackley, both known in Europe
as well as America.
I have tried to hastily tell you of the
progress of our women, not yet fifty
years away from slavery. The club spirit
prevails among them, as well as among
the women of the Caucasian race, and
they are working for the intellectual and
moral uplifting of the race, having taken
as their motto: “Lifting as we climb.
What may they not accomplish with
the infusion and enthusiasm of such a
spirit.
THE BURDEN
COLORED MEN LYNCHED WITH-
	OUT	TRIAL.	
1885		....	78	1S98		.... 102
18S6		....	71	1S99		....	84
1887		.... SO	1900		.... 107
1SSS,....		 95	1901		.... 107
1889			 95	1902		.... 86
1890...:		 90	1903		.... 86
1891....		 121	1904		....	83
1892....		 155	1905		.... 61
1893....		 154	1906		. .. .	64
1894....		 134	1907		. .. . 60
1895....		 112	1908		.... 93
1S96....		 SO	1909		....	73
1897....	1??	1910		.... 65
Total......2.458
THE GROWTH OF PREJUDICE.
A few weeks ago Mr. Joseph Braxton,
a young- colored man of Harrisburg,
Pa., applied for admission to Worcester
Academy, in Massachusetts, of which Mr.
D. W. Abercrombie is president, in order
to prepare for Brown University. After
the usual correspondence the young man
presented himself. He was sent away
with the following letter (the italics are
ours):
“I regret very much the unfortunate
circumstance which makes it necessary
to write this letter to you. Your son
arrived here last night, and, as you must
know, we were very much surprised to
find that he is. a colored boy. In all
our correspondence with you, and with
Mr. Greene, no mention has ever been
made of this fact. If you had told us
that the boy is a Negro we should have
explained our necessary conditions, and
this would have prevented the boy’s trip
to Worcester, At several times in the
history of the Worcester Academy Ne-
groes have been admitted to the school,
and a number of them have done well,
and been an honor to themselves, their
race and this school, but the personnel
of the student body has changed,
especially in the last few years, and it
would be unwise at the present time to
admit Negroes. This is not at all on
account of prejudice against the race, or
against any one Negro personally. It
is the wisest course for us to pursue,
and it is a policy which must be strictly
adhered to. As I said in the beginning,
1 am exceedingly sorry that your son
took the trip to Worcester, but under
the circumstances I think we are blame-
less. He seems to think that the in-
formation that he was a Negro failed
to reach us through a misunderstanding
on the part of you and Mr. Greene. I
like the boy’s appearance and spirit, as
well as his courage, and I wish for him
only the greatest success.”
THE CONTRACTOR AND THE
BELLBOY.
A most interesting tale comes from
Cincinnati. One of the city’s great news-
papers printed a story with these head-
lines:
AWOKE
To Find Negro in Bed.
Beside Her and Husband—Thrilling
Experience of Contractor’s Wife
at the Imperial Hotel.
The tale went on to tell how a police-
man, “answering calls for help,” ran to
the hotel and saved a certain Mrs.
McCormick from “one of the boldest
attempts to assault ever brought to the
attention of the police.” During this
adventure, the newspaper said, Mr. Mc-
Cormick “continued to sleep,” but his
THE BURDEN
35
indignation when finally aroused “knew
no bounds, and he at once started out
to hunt for the colored man to kill
him."
The Negro in question, oddly enough,
was not lynched—is the white race be-
coming spiritless?—but was brought into
court the next morning. It appears that
Mr. McCormick had been very drunk
and the colored man had brought him
to his room. He went on an errand
for the man and returned with a mes-
sage. He did not even enter the room.
There were no screams for help—the
woman accused him of trying to enter
the room and he showed his innocence
so clearly that he was at once freed
of the charge. But the headlines, no
doubt, did their share in the work of
arousing the lynching spirit.
A white woman, a nurse in a good
family in Cincinnati, was arrested in com-
pany with a colored man, a butler, for
•‘loitering.’' They said that the woman,
who was a stranger in the city, had
lost her way and that the colored man, to
whom she had appealed for information,
was taking her to the car. No evidence
was brought forward to show that they
were anything but perfectly respectable.
WHAT TO READ
BOOKS.
Demarest,Virginia—“Nobody’s." Harper.
Drummond, May Harvey—“The Story
of Quamin." Putnam.
This is a sketch of the life of a
Negro boy from infancy to maturity
as he is found in Jamaica and other
West Indian islands.
Du Bois, W. E. B.—“The Quest of the
Silver Fleece.” McClurg.
Fite, Emerson David—“The Presidential
Campaign of 1S60." Macmillan.
Morton. E.—“Lincoln, Lover of Man-
kind." Moffat.
Roby, M.—“My Adventures in the
Congo." Longmans.
Semple, Ellen Churchill—“The Influ-
ence of Geographic Environment."
Holt.
Swift, Lindsay—“William Lloyd Garri-
son." Jacobs.
Washington, Booker T.—“My Larger
Education." Doubleday, Page.
Williams. A. D.—“Praise of Lincoln."
Bobbs-Merrill.
Wilson, David Alec.—“East and West."
Methuen.
“East and West” is a collection of
notes made by the writer during
twenty-five years of service in the
Indian Civil Service in Burma. Mr.
Wilson suggests that social inter-
course between the races should be
restricted to the intelligent people of
both sides.
PERIODICALS.
“Alcohol in Africa." Sir Harry H. John-
ston. The Nineteenth Century and
After, September.
“A Pawn in the Struggle for Freedom.
Ray Stannard Baker. American, Sep-
tember.
“Concerning Prejudice. Scott Nearing.
Everybody’s, September.
“Four Giants in Brobdingnag. Mark
F Wilcox. Century, September.
“Frenchman and German in Africa.”
Edgar Allen Forbes. Review of Re-
views, September.
“General Grant’s Letters to General
Beale." Scribner’s, October.
“General Sherman on His Own Record:
Some Unpublished Comments." Ed-
ited by Jared W. Young. Atlantic,
September.
“Notes on Some Tribes of British Cen-
tral Africa." H. S. Stannus. Journal
of the Royal Anthropological Institute
of Great Britain and Ireland, July to
December, 1910.
“Race and Colour Prejudice in India."
W. B. Oldham. The Imperial and
Asiatic Quarterly Review, July.
“Some Rights of College Students."
Thaddeus P. Thomas. Independent,
September 28.
“The Dred Scott Decision in the Light
of Contemporary Legal Doctrines."
Edward S. Corwin. The American
Historical Review, October.
“The Fate of the Lincoln Conspirators."
John A. Gray. McClure’s. October.
“The Fifteenth Amendment." Independ-
ent, September 21.
“The Little Hopping Frog." Lucy
Pratt. Atlantic. September.
“The Mystery of Zimbabwe." Frederick
A. Edwards, F. R. G. S. Asiatic Quar-
terly Review, July.
“The Story of the Civil War Told by
Photographs." Gen. Horatio C. King.
Review of Reviews, October.
“The Trick-Doctor." Thomas Nelson
Page. Scribner’s, September.
“Trying to Solve the World’s Problems
of Race." Saint Nihal Singh. Review
of Reviews, September.
“The Universal Races Congress." Ar-
thur Ransom. Westminster Review,
September.
“Under the Yoke." H. W. Nevinson.
North American Review, August.
“When Mammy’s Away." Adam Breede.
McClure’s, October.
36
THE
CRISIS ADVERTISER
Two Negro men came up to the outskirts
of a crowd where Senator Bailey was
making a campaign speech. After listening
to the speech for about ten minutes, one
of them turned to his companion and
asked:
“Who am dat man, Sambo?”
“Ah don’t know what his name am,*’
Sambo replied, “but he certainly do rec-
ommen* hisself mos’ highly.”—Success.
An Imposter !		
		This man, Eugene
	( A	Howard, is swind-
	y.	ling persons in Okla-
	■'W.	homa, Kansas and
	i -v-	Texas hy fraudu-
	•'	• -	.	i	i iently	representing THE CRISIS and collecting suh-r	
	scriptions. I	nformation leading to
	his arrest will he rewarded.	
ORIENTAL
SACHET
POWDER
Fragrant and Lasting.
Put up in attractive
glass bottles with alu-
minum screw tops.
Seven odors to choose
from: Honeysuckle,
Mignonette, Violet,
Bouquet, Treflo Incar-
nat, Lilac, Rose Sweet.
Price per bottle, 25c.,
mailed postpaid.
Price List of Toilet
Goods free.
Agents Wanted.
ALEXANDER SPECIALTY CO.
150 Nassau Street	New York City
Bom. 2220	Cen. 6322
Van Noy Printing Co.
100 Linen Finish Cards by Mall, 50c.
COMMERCIAL PRINTING
SOCIETY PRINTING
BOOK AND JOB PRINTING
2315 MARKET ST. ST. LOUIS, MO.
If you nro honeat, ambitious and determined to suc-
ceed in business—a business absolutely your own—wo
can help you. Wo will teach you b> mail the secrets of
Real Estate, Brokerage and Insurance business, listprr
perties and propositions with and for you to handle
you can make money from tho very start.
We Teach You All the Secrets
ol Real Estate, Brokerage
and Insurance Business
VVc Instruct You In
Salesmanship.
Advertising.
Office System.
Real Estate .Titles.
Conveyancing.
How to List Properties.
How to Judge Values.
How to Option Properties.
How to Find Prospectivo Customers.
How to Close Deals.
How to Secure Loans.
How to Get Insurance Business.
How to Organize and Finance Corporations. In fact,
all tne essential secrets known to and practiced by tho
successful broker and promoter.
We also give you a thorough Commercial Law Course,
enablingyou to meet for yourself and overcome difficulties
that may arise. In short, westartyouontheroadtosuccejj
Success and Independence
Mr. Gates says: "I started into this business without
capital and havo built up one of tho most successful
agencies in Vermont.” Mr. Dunbar of Kansas says:
havo cleared up for myself during the year (his first
year) over $9,00).” Mr. Reynaud of Texas says: "I havo
done remarkably well for a beginner, having made over
$6,500 in commissions since I started, nine months ago.”
Our G4-page book. sent free, tells you how to
start—a postal card will briny it—write today.
INTERNATIONAL REALTY CORE.,
619 Manhattan ltldg., Chicago, 111.
READ THE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS ON
PAGES 39, 40 AND 41.
A value unequaled. Sold on
Si.00 Profit Margin. Write
for prices and other styles.
Send for catalog.
C. R. Patterson & Sons
GREENFIELD, OHIO
Largest Negro carriage concern in tho United States
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS
ADVERTISER
37
WHERE TO STOP
€J Our readers are urged to use these hotels and stopping places.
They are modern in every sense, and the traveling public is assured
comfort and efficient service.
For detailed information concerning resorts and hotels write
The Travel Editor of The Crisis, 20 Vesey St., New York
NEW YORK CITY
JHarslmU’a Ifutrl
COMFORT—Large, airy rooms, .offering genuine home comforts plus the
conveniences and privileges of a modern hotel.
SERVICE—In the hotel and dining room the “Marshall” service is an excep-
tional feature, which assures comfort and pleasure for our patrons.
Restaurant open all night.	Cuisine to satisfy the most discriminating
VOCAL AND INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC EVERY EVENING
Breakfast, 7:30 to 12:30, 30c. Luncheon, 12:30 to 3, 30c. Dinner, 6 to 8, 35c.
Special Course Dinner Every Sunday and Holidays, 50c.
Telephones 4693 - 4694 Columbus	J* L. MARSHALL, Proprietor
THE CLIFF HOUSE
263 WEST 134TH STREET
NEWLY OPENED
Ideal homo for gentlemen. Laundry, darning
and tailoring done on premises, and included in
rent for room.
Every modern convenience.
MRS. W. E. PERKINS, Prop.
’Phone Chelsea 2957
THE TEN EYCK HOUSE
232 WEST 20TH STREET
Between 7th and 8th Avenues NEW YORK
Neatly Furnished Rooms for Permanent
or Transient Guests by Day or Week
MRS. THOMAS L. TEN EYCK, Proprietress
“A quiet place for quiet people to dine”
“THE BRADFORD”
73 WEST 134TH STREET
Between Fifth and Lenox Avenues NEW YORK
Oysters Chops, Steaks, Rarebits, Salads, Club
Sandwiches, Etc. Regular Dinner, 25c., from
2 p m to 9 p. m. Meals Served at All Hours.
Private Dining Room. Furnished Rooms To
Let. Permanent or Transient
JOHN E. BRADFORD, Proprietor
HARLEM PRIVATE HOUSE
Furnished rooms to let for gentlemen only.
Hot and cold water in every room.
MRS. BERRY L. HICKS, Proprietress
268 WEST 1S3D STREET	NEW YORK
THE SOUTHERN RESTAURANT
(Under New Management)
2229 FIFTH AVENUE
Between 135th and 136th Streets NEW YORK
Real home cooking. Come and be convinced.
Our motto is to please you. Meals at all hoars.
MRS. M. J. FERDINAND, Proprietress
Telephone 5395 Chelsea
THE LAWS HOUSE
FURNISHED ROOMS
BY DAY, WEEK OR MONTH
Convenient to the Pennsylvania
Depot and All Car Lines
245 WEST 20TH STREET	NEW YORK
MRS. L. D. LAWS, Proprietress
’Phone 2877 Lenox
WHITE ROSE WORKING GIRLS*
HOME
217 East 86th Street
Bet. Second and Third Avenues
Pleasant temporary lodgings for working girls,
with privileges, at reasonable rates. The Home
solicits orders for working dresses, aprons, etc.
Address:
MRS. FRANCES R. KEYSER, Supt.
IS YOUR HOTEL LISTED HERE?
IF NOT, WRITE US.
Four door, from Eighth Avenue^^ ^
38
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
NORTH CAROLINA
SANDERS’ HOTEL
SOI S. Caldwell Street, Charlotte, N. C.
Ideal location for transient and permanent
boarders. All modern conveniences and comforts
of home life.
J. T. SANDERS
Proprietor
’Phono 681	Hot and Cold Baths
WARREN HOTEL
MISS BETTIE DUNCAN, Proprietress
First-class accommodations. Meals at all hours.
RATES REASONABLE
COR. RAMSEY AND PROCTOR STREETS
Three Blocks from Union Station
DURHAM, N. C.
KELLY MILLER’S WORKS
COMPREHENSIVE, CANDID, STATESMANLIKE.
RACE ADJUSTMENT
Large, octavo, 300 pages, best book, cloth, gilt edge, gold top. Price $2.00.
/‘Prof. Miller shows himself a master of an incisive style and a keen logician.”
—Cleveland Plain Dealer.
"‘Admirable for calmness and temper, thoroughness and skill.”—New York
Evening Post.
“Controversial, brilliantly so.”—New York Sun.
PAMPHLETS
Roosevelt and the Negro.....................10c
Appeal to Reason............................10c
Forty Years of Negro Education..............10c
The Ultimate Race Problem...................10c
The Political Capacity of the Negro.........10c
The Talented Tenth..........................10c
Brief for the Higher Education of the Negro 10c
Primary Needs of the Negro	Race..........10c
Social Equality............................. 6c
Agents wanted. Apply to author, Howard University, Washington, D. C.
HOOT SUPREME OFFICERS OF THE		Hoo Hoo I	Hoo Hoo !	Hoc Hoo !
A A		SOMETHING NEW
BLSlEL		The Atr® - American
iff		Order ©fi Owls
o o o		With a Graduated Scale of Endowment
Home Nest Tree 110/4 West Colfax Ave. South Bend, Ind.		WANTED—Organizers in every city in the United States. For particulars write G. W. Bland, H. S* P., 110/4 Colfax Avenue, South Bend, Indiana.
Do You Want to Make Money?
CANVASSERS TO SELL SPHINX HANSOPE
Used in garage, machine shop, factory and home. Twenty-five boxes
or $1.25; you sell for $2.50. Whitens the skin, softens the hands, prevents
lapping, heals cracks and sores. The first aid in burns. Strictly antiseptic.
SPHINX LABOR-SAVING SOAP CO., Imc.
117 West Street, New York City
Mention The Crisis.
THE
CRISIS
ADVERTISER
39
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
tj Through our Classified Advertising Service you have the opportunity
to tell your little wants to 40,000 SELECT readers.
<1 If you want HELP, you can find, among The CRISIS readers,
graduates of Industrial Schools and thousands of young people who are
trained for efficient, dependable service.
If you want a POSITION, The Crisis can help you find high-
class places for teachers, managers, clerks, stenographers, hotel men, etc., etc.
You will find our readers very responsive to this department for
Business Opportunities, Investments, Correspondence Schools, Agents
Wanted, etc. *
Advertisers may have replies sent in care of The Crisis and forwarded.
^ Classified advertising rates made known on application.
REAL ESTATE
Valuable Texas Lands
For Sale
Large tracts of farm land in the best local-
ities of the State for sale at very flattering
prices. Small tracts for good lands suitable for
farming, truck, fruits and any domestic product.
We have for sale a number of large farms al-
ready in cultivation, good houses and barns,
wells, and nice pasture lands, which can be
obtained at reasonable rates. City property a
specialty. Business lots in the best part of
the city, improved and unimproved. Large lots
suitable for factory property with switch
facilities.
No investment can be more valuable than an
investment in Texas real estate. Lands are be-
coming so valuable that they are doubling
themselves in value in less than a year's lime.
For any investment in Texas property, write
T. B. Madison Real Estate Company, 2415 Elm
Street, Dallas, Texas.
To Colored People
FOR SALE—We have houses from $1,000 to
$30,000. Our city is the capital of Ohio
and a great manufacturing center—plenty of
work a good place to locate for business. Can
sell you a house for $50. $100 to $500 down,
balance like rent. For investment and specu-
lating houses or business places. $1,000 to
$5 000 down, balance on long time payment.
Farm land prices from $1,000 to $10,000 up.
Any of these are in good locations. Write for
further information.
THIS IS A COLORED ENTERPRISE.
EDWARD A. SHANKLIN
Real Estate
1218Yi M*- Vernon Ave. Columbus, Oblo
The Opportunity of a
Lifetime
Ten thousand acres at $10 per acre are now
offered to thousands of progressive and indus-
trious colored people throughout the United
States of America to substantially improve their
condition, regardless as to whether they are in
moderate circumstances or wealthy, by the
Southern Land Development Co.
whose capital stock is $2,500,000, incorporated
under the laws of Arizona, with general office
at 124 ^ South Union Avenue, PUEBLO, COLO.,
has a holding of 167,402 acres of some of the
best land to be found anywhere in the world,
which they are now selling at $10 per acre;
$1.25 per acre down as first payment, the bal-
ance in one, two or three years, at 6% interest.
This land is located in the State of Campeche,
Mex., and is known as La Montana Tract. It
is noted for its dyewood. It is just nine miles
from the Gulf on the Champoton River, four
hundred and fiftv miles southeast of Mexico City.
QUALITY—These lands have eighteen kinds
of hardwood distributed throughout the property.
They are producing oranges, limes, cocoanuts,
pears, corn, cotton, sugar cane, bananas, tobacco,
rice, and every other kind of tropical product;
also henequen, the greatest product of the
country, which yields a net profit of $70 to $30
per acre.
The climate is excellent, plenty of rainfall
and no drought, cheap labor; the’ best chance
on earth for the colored man to become wealthy
and independent. Hundreds are going there to
live, others are buying because it is a safe
and profitable investment.
We want good, reliable agents throughout the
country. If you are interested write at once
to the
Southern Land Development Co.
PUEBLO, COLO.
P. O. Box No 5.
Mention The Crisis.
40
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
REAL ESTATE
An investment in New York City and its
suburban Real Estate oflTors the surest road to
success and wealth. Lots, farm lands and houses
for sale. Out-of-town correspondence invited.
S. AUGUSTUS DUNCAN
REAL ESTATE AND INSURANCE BROKER
2229 Fifth Avenue	New York
SCHOOLS
YOUNG MAN, HAVE YOU A TRADE?
By our method we teach the Barber Trade in
six weeks.
We give you a complote set of tools and
secure you a position in a shop. Call or write
for particulars.
NEW YORK BARBER SCHOOL
Costello & Wise
Cor. Bowery and Rivington St. NEW YORK
HELP WANTED
LOCAL REPRESENTATIVES for THE CRISIS
wanted in each locality.
Some agents sell over 800 copies monthly.
Write for particulars.
Address:
FRANK M. TURNER
CIRCULATION MANAGER
Suite 311
20 Vesey Street, New York
WANTED—Competent business man to act as
Secretary and Assistant Manager of Brick
Company. Must invest at least $500. Only
correspondents furnishing references will be
answered. This is a rare opportunity and
should be investigated at once.
Address, Box 226, Mound Bayou, Miss.
JEWELRY
A BEAUTIFUL f\C\
Gold-Filled Ring *PJ-«V/V/
Suitable as a present or Christina's gift.
Write for particulars.
DODSON COMPANY
Importing Jowolors
127 W. VINE ST.,	KNOXVILLE, TENN.
DRESSMAKING
MRS. L. FROST
139 West 135th Street New York City
FASHIONABLE DRESSMAKER
Machine or hand-made gowns and
waists made in up-to-date styles
MRS. DOCIA A. McCLAIN
119 W. 134th Street	New York City
Will continuo to operato the dressmaking and
tailoring establishment known as N. Vaughan,
119 W. 131th Street, New York City, and is in a
position to better satisfy her customers.
EMBROIDERY
IDA B. CURTIS
1G-18 W. 136th Street, Apt. A, New York City
Embroidering done to order; also instruction
given at reasonable price. Special attention
to misses.
EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES
RELIABLE HELP at all times for the most
discriminating .mployers.
Out-of-town correspondence invited.
References thoroughly investigated
Address:
MISS I. L. MOORMAN
463 Lenox Avenue	Now York
£'y?u°r frf«d ln^.d of}HELP or POSITION?
If so, ’phone, call or write the
MIDDLESEX EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
2229 Fifth Ave., near 136th St.
0HA8. A. XNOWLES, Mgr.
References Carefully Investigated
’Phone 6370 Harlem
CRISIS AGENT
THE CRISIS
CHARLES D. LEVY
Agent, New Orleans, La.
FUNERAL DIRECTORS
Thos. A. Lester, Manager
Thomas Mangrum, Assistant
MAMIE L. ANDERSON
LICENSED EMBALMER
FUNERAL DIRECTOR
2293 Seventh Avenue	New York City
ALL MODERN IMPROVEMENTS
LARGE FUNERAL PARLORS
Brooklyn Branch	Tel. 7949 Morn.
473 Carlton Avenue	Open All Night
Tel. 3870-W. ProB.
Sam. F. Taylor, Funeral Director
ENTERTAINER
’Phone 487G-W Iiarlcm
The Quaint Entertainer, Author and Banjo
Comedian
AL. BROWN
Presents His
DUO, TRIO AND QUARTETTE
For All Private Occasions
References; The Public for 12 Years
Studio: 16-18 W. 136th St. Now York City
Hours: 10 A. M. to 7 P. M.
Mention The Crisis.
THE
CRISIS
ADVERTISER
41
MUSIC
HELEN ELISE SMITH
CONCERT PIANIST
Post-Grnduato of the Institute of Musical Art
Pupil of Sigismund Stojowski
Teacher of Piano, Theory, Ear-training, etc.
224 EAST 86TH STREET, NEW YORK CITY
SONGS.—There is money to be made in song-
writing.
If you write poems or compose music, send us
your work for examination. If terms are satis-
factory wo will publish and pay one-half profits.
GOTHAM-ATTUCKS MUSIC CO.
136 WEST 37TH STREET	NEW YORK
MISS EDITH W. McKENNY
Concert Pianist
310 W. 119th Street	New York City
Piano lessons given privately or in classes
at reasonable rates.
Music furnished for private parties.
_____________FURRIER________________
Seventeen Years’ Experience
WORK TURNED OUT PROMPTLY
MRS. G. B. NEEDLES
Late with Broadway houses
PRACTICAL FURRIER
All kinds of furs remodelled, repaired and re-
lined. White furs cleaned, equal to new. Coats
guaranteed to fit. Prices reasonable.
24 WEST 1S5TH STREET	NEW YORK
Read the classified advertise-
ments on pages 39, 40 and 41.
BOOKS
JOINING THE NAVY; OR,
ABROAD WITH UNOLE SAM
By JOHN H. PAYNTER, A-M.
First Race Contribution to Navy
Literature
Ordered by the Government for Libraries of
War Vessels
“It is a perfect picture of life on board
ship when I first went to sea. The story is
told so simply and in such good style, and
holds its interest 30, that I read it through
at one sitting.'’—Richardson Clover, Rear
Admiral, U. 3. N., Retired.
Cloth Bound. 300 Pages. Fully Illustrated.
SECOND EDITION
Sent Postage Paid on Receipt of One Dollar
Address care of
SUDWARTH PRINTING CO. '
WASHINGTON. D. C.
PICTURES
Most beautiful works of art suitable for parlor
and bedroom. Should be in every Negro home.
Pictures 16x20.	“Jesus Died for Both.’’
“Clinging to the Cross.’’ “Beacon Light.’’
“Booker T. Washington.’’ “Protecting Angel.“
“Heavenward.” “Onward." “Jack Johnson.’’
“The Colored Troop Charging up San Juan
Hill.’’ “Moses.” “The Little Shepherd.”
Price, postpaid, 25 cents.
17 Beautiful Art Postcards, 15 Cents
Mottoes, Lovers, Comics, Christmas, New
Year’s, Thanksgiving and other holiday cards.
Seeing New York on a postal card; 25 in all.
Postpaid, 25 cents.
AGENT WANTED
Our agents are coining money on these pic-
tures and postcards. One agent made $15 in
one day.
JACOB GRIFFITH
252 IWEST 53d STREET	NEW YORK
LEGAL DIRECTORY
J. DOUGLAS WETMORE
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Real Estate and Probate Matters a Specialty
ROBERT B. BARCUS
5 Beckman Street (Temple Court)
New York City
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Notary Public
Tel. 6222 Cortlandt
Cable Address, Judowet
Office: Room 502, Eberly Block Columbus, O.
FREDERICK L. McGHEE
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Union Block, Fourth and Cedar Streets
St. Paul, Minn.
B.	S. SMITH
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law.
Offices: Suite 610, Sykes Block
Minneapolis, Minn.
General Practice	Notary PubIic
WILLIAM R- MORRIS
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
1020 Metropolitan Life Building
Minneapolis, Minn.
GEORGE W. MITCHELL
Attornsy-at-Law
908 Walnut Street
Philadelphia, Pa.
Mention The Ceisis.
42
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
A limited number of
free beds maintained
for the worthy poor.
Other ward patients
maintained at $7.00
per woek.
Private rooms can
bo socurod from
$12.00 to $30.00 per
woek.
Tho training school
for nurses maintains
a two years’ course.
A high school cer-
tificate, or an edu-
cation sufficient to
bo considered an
equivalent, necessary
for admission.
Five thousand dol-
lars endows a free
bed.
m
Andrew F. Stevens,
President.
Nathan F. Mossell, M.D.
Medical Director and
Superintendent.
Frederick Douglass Memorial Hospital and Training School, Philadelphia, Pa.
S. A. KELSEY, Pres. DR. WM. J. CARTER, Chiropodist MME A. C. KELSEY, Gen'l Instr.
TEbe Tkelseg School ot Beauts Culture anb fbalr Dressing
328 Lenox Avenue, New York City. Branch: 75 W. 135th Street
Personal instruction given in the Art of Manicuring, Shampooing, Hair Dressing,
Beauty Culture, Chiropody, and the manufacturing of Human Hair Goods. Send
for booklet-directory of the recently graduated students. Courses from $10 to $65.
Telephone 3263 Harlem	CARPET CLEANING
CLEANERS AND RENOVATERS FOR PARTICULAR PEOPLE
NEW YORK CAREFUL CLEANING BUREAU
12 WEST 135TH STREET
We make a specialty of cleaning and renovating carpets, rugs, portieres and upholstered
furniture, we also vacuum clean in the home. We are not the largest carpet cleaner in the
world, but absolutely the most careful in every detail.
8HAMPOOLNG CARPETS AND RUGS OUR SPECIALTY
ESTABLISHED 1887	’Phone 4715 Mad. Sq.
L. A. de TOSCANO CO.
OLDEST COLORED REGALIA ESTABLISHMENT IN THE CITY
Knights of Pythias	BADGES	Paraphernalia
Knights Templars And Patriarchs	JEWELS	and Supplies for All Societies
Equipments	REGALIA	Estimates Given
Mme. B. E. de Toscano, Manager
146 WEST 31st STREET	Bet. Si.th end Seventh Avenue.	NEW YORK CITY
Mention The Crisis.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION for the
ADVANCEMENT of COLORED PEOPLE
(Incorporated May 25, 1911)
OBJECT.—The National Association
for the Advancement of Colored People
is an organization composed of men and
women of all races and classes who be-
lieve that the present widespread increase
of prejudice against colored races and
particularly the denial of rights and
opportunities to ten million Americans of
Negro descent is not only unjust and a
menace to our free institutions, but also
is a direct hindrance to World Peace
and the realization of Human Brother-
hood.
METHODS.—The encouragement of
education and efforts for social uplift; the
dissemination of literature; the holding of
mass meetings; the maintenance of a lec-
ture bureau; the encouragement of vigi-
lance committees; the investigation of com-
plaints; the maintenance of a Bureau of
Information; 'the publication of The
CRISIS; the collection of facts and publi-
cation of the truth.
ORGANIZATION.—All interested
persons are urged to join our organization
—associate membership costs $ l, and
contributing and sustaining members pay
from $2 to $25 a year.
FUNDS.—We need $10,000 a year
for running expenses of this work and par-
ticularly urge the necessity of gifts to help
on our objects.
OFFICERS.—The officers of the
organization are:
National President — Mr. Moorfield
Storey, Boston, Mass.
Chairman of the Executive Committee—
Mr. Oswald Garrison Villard, New
York.
Treasurer—Mr. Walter E. Sachs. New
York.
Director of Publicity and Research—Dr.
W.	E. B. DuBois. New York.
Secretary—Miss Mary W. Ovington,
New York,
COMMITTEE.—Our work is car-
ried on under the auspices of the follow-
ing General Committee, in addition to the
officers named:
Miss Gertrude Banium. New York.
Miss Frances Blascoer. New York.
•Rev. \V. H. Brooks, New York.
Prof. John Dewey. New York.
•Dr. John Lovejoy Elliott. New York.
*.Mr. Thos. Ewing. Jr.. New York.
•Rev. John Haynes Holmes. New York.
Mr. Hamilton Holt. New York.
Miss Maud R. Iugersoll. New York.
•Airs. Florence Kelley. New York.
•Mr. Paul Kennaday, New York.
•Mrs. F. R. Keyser. New York.
Dr. Chas. Len/. New York.
Mr. Jacob \V. Mack, New York.
•Airs. M. D. Maclean. New York.
•Mr. John E. Milholland. New York.
Rev. Horace G. AlUler. New York.
Airs. Max AIoryeniLau. Jr.. New York.
Air. James F. Morton. Jr.. New York.
Air. Henry Moskowltz, New York.
AHss Leonora O'Reilly. New York.
•Rev. A. Clayton Powell. New York.
•Mr. Charles Edward Russell. New York.
Mr. Jacob H. SchlfT. New York.
Prof. E. R. A. Seligman. New York.
•Dr. Joseph Silverman. New York.
Airs. Anna Garlln Spencer. New York.
•Prof. J. E. Splngarn. New York.
Airs. Henry Villard. New York.
•Alias Lillian D. Wald. New York.
•Mr. Wm. English Walling. New York.
•Bishop Alexander Walters. New York.
Dr. Stephen S. Wise. New York.
AHss M. R. Lyons. Brooklyn. N. Y.
•Dr. O. M. Waller. Brooklyn. N. Y.
Air. D. Macon Webster. Brooklyn. N. Y.
Air. Geo. E. Wlbecan. Jr.. Brooklyn. N. Y.
.Mrs. W. H. Talbert. Buffalo. N. Y.
Hon. Thos. M. Osborne. Auburn. N. Y.
•Air. W. L. Bulkley. Ridgefield Park. N. J.
Air. George W. Crawford. New Haven. Conn.
Miss Maria Baldwin. Boston. Alass.
Mr. Francis J. Garrison. Boston. Alaaa.
Air. Archibald H. Grimke. Boston. Mass.
AHss Adelene Moffat. Boston. Mass.
•Air. Albert E. Pillsbury. Boston. Mass.
Mr. Wm. Munroe Trotter. Boston. Alaae.
Dr. Horace Bumstead, Brookline. Alass.
AHss Elizabeth C. Carter. New Bedford. Maim.
Rev. Harvey Jonuston. Baltimore. Md.
Rev. Garnett R. Walter. Baltimore, Md.
Prest. Chas. T. Thwing. Cleveland. O.
Air. Chas. W. Chesnutt. Cleveland. O.
Hon. Harry C. Smith. Cleveland. O.
Prest. H. C. King. Oberlln. O.
Prest. W. S. Scarborough. Wllberforce. O.
•AHss Jane Addams. Chicago. 111.
•Airs. Ida B. Wells Barnett, Chicago. I1L
•Dr. C. E. Bentley. Chicago. 111.
Alias Sophronlsba Breckenrldge. Chicago. 111.
Air. Clarence Darrow, Chicago. 111.
Air. Julius Rosenwald. Chicago. I1L
.Mrs. Celia Parker Woolley. Chicago. 111.
Mr. F. L. McGhee. St. Paul. AUnn.
AHss Frances Bartholomew. Philadelphia. Pa.
•Dr. N. F. Mosaell. Philadelphia. Pa.
•Dr. Wm. A. Sinclair. Philadelphia. Pa.
AHss Susan Wharton. Philadelphia, Pa.
Mr. R. R. Wright. Jr.. Philadelphia. Pa.
Air. W. Justin Carter. Harrisburg. Pa.
Rev Harvey Johnson. D.D.. Baltimore. Md.
Hon. Wm. S. Bennet. Washington. D. C.
Mrs. Carrie W. Clifford. Washington. D. C.
Mr. L. M. Hershaw. Washington. D. C.
Prof. Holly AUller, Washington. D. C.
Prof. L. B. Aloore. Washington. D. C.
Justice W. P. Stafford. Washington. D. C.
•Mrs. Alary Church Terrell. Washington. D. C.
•Rev. J. Milton Waldron. Washington. D. C.
Prest. John Hope. Atlanta. Ga.
Mr. Leslie P. Hill. Manassas. Va.
Air. WllLlam Pickens. Talladega. Ala.
•Executive Committee.
OFFICES:
Suite 311, 20 Vesey Street, New York.
a
HALF A MAN
The Status of the Negro in New York
By
MARY WHITE OVINGTON
With q Foreword by Dr. Franz Boas, of Columbia University
"My father has always lived in the
South,” a young colored man once said to
me, “and has attained success there; but
when I ceased to be a boy he advised me
to live in the North, where my manhood
would be respected. He himself cannot
continually endure his position of inferior-
ity, and in the summer he comes North to
be a man. No,” correcting himself, “to
be HALF A MAN. A Negro is wholly a
man only in Europe.”—From the Author’s
” Introduction.”
Miss Ovington’s description of the status
of the Negro in New York City is based on
a most painstaking inquiry into his social
and economic conditions, and brings out in
the most forceful way the difficulties under
which the race is laboring, even in the large
cosmopolitan population of New York. It
is a refutation of the claims that the Negro
has equal opportunity with the whites, and
that his failure to advance more rapidly
than he has, is due to innate inability.—
From Dr. Boas’ ‘‘Foreword.”
12mo, cloth. Price $1.00 net. By mail, $1.12.
LONGMANS, GREEN & CO„ Publishers, NEW YORK
The above book may be purchased through any bookseller or will be mailed by
THE CRISIS on receipt of the price and postage.
THE DIFFERENCE
Between “GOOD ENOUGH*’ and the “BEST** is the
difference between ordinary print-shop work and ours.
Our facilities and long years of experience give
our work that INDIVIDUALITY which you appreciate in
your printed things.
We refer you to Mr. Conde Nast of Vogue and
Dr. W. E. B. Du Bois of The Crisis.
By the way, we print The Crisis. Do you like
it? If so, let us make an estimate on your work.
ROBERT N. WOOD 2,2	Y"'k
Mention Th
Crisis.
*4
Those Xmas Gifts
^ Of course it’s early, but after all Christmas is but three little weeks
away.
C| Now we’ve prepared a Christmas card with one of The CRISIS girls
on it. You know the one—with wistful face and the shadow of songs
in her eyes.
This we’ve printed daintily in delicate brown on fine cardboard,
together with a sprig of holly, naturally, and that sort of thing. We’ve
added some words like these:
Dear Friend:
To wish you MERRY CHRISTMAS I have
ordered The CRISIS sent to you throughout the
GLAD NEW YEAR. _________________________________
^j] All this, of course, in deep old gothic type with initials illuminated—
CRISIS way. Quite a lovely card in itself.
Cl Really, now, haven’t you several friends of varied color who would
appreciate this gift? We hope our supply will last.
fl A postcard n>ill bring you as many of these cards as you wish.
THE CRISIS
A RECORD OF THE DARKER RACES
Published by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, at
20 Vesey Street, New York City.
W. E. BURGHARDT DU BOIS, Editor
M. D. MACLEAN, Managing Editor
FRANK M. TURNER. Circulation Manager
ALBON L. HOLSEY, Advertising Manager
Contributing
Editors
OSWALD GARRISON VILLARD
J. MAX BARBER
CHARLES EDWARD RUSSELL
W. S BRAITHWAITE
KELLY MILLER
CONTENTS FOR DECEMBER, 1911
COVER DESIGN AND DEPARTMENT HEADINGS. By Louise R.
Latimer.
COVER PICTURE AFTER ALBRECHT DURER’S “ADORATION OF
THE THREE WISE MEN.”
ALONG THE COLOR LINE................................. 51
MEN OF THE MONTH..................................... 58
OPINION ............................................. 60
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE.................................... 64
EDITORIAL ........................................... 65
WENDELL PHILLIPS: Portrait........................... 66
WENDELL PHILLIPS. By Charles	Edward Russell.......... 67
JESUS CHRIST IN GEORGIA: A Story..................... 70
THE STORY OF A “DESPERADO.” By William Pickens....... 74
HISTORIC DAYS IN DECEMBER. By L. M. Hershaw.......... 75
THE BURDEN ........................................   76
NATIVITY: Poem by M. W. Ovington..................... 76
WHAT TO READ......................................... 77
CIRCULATION, 16,000 COPIES
Agents wanted who can furnish references.
Entered as second-class matter in the post office at New York City.
48	THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
Atlanta University
Ib beautifully located in the City of Atlanta, Ga.
Tho courses of study include High School, Nor-
mal School and College, with manual training
and domestic scienco. Among the teachors are
graduates of Yale, Harvard, Dartmouth, Smith
and Wellesley. Forty-ono years of successful
work have been completed. Students come from
all parts of the South. Graduates are almost
universally successful.
For further information address
President EDWARD T. WARE
ATLANTA, GA.
Knoxville College
Beautiful Situation, Healthful Location
The Best Moral and Spiritual Environment
A Splendid Intellectual Atmosphere
Noted for Honest and Thorough Work
Offers full courses in the following de-
partments: College, Normal, High School,
Grammar School and Industrial.
Good water, steam heat, electric lights,
good drainage. Expenses very reasonable.
Opportunity for Self-help.
Fall Term Opened Sept. 27, 1911.
For information address
President R. W. McGranahan
KNOXVILLE, TENN.
Uirginia Umm University
RICHMOND, VA.
A Collego Department, of high standards and
modern curriculum.
A Theological Department, with all subjects
generally required in the best theological
seminaries.
An Academy, with manual training, giving
a preparation for life or for college.
The positive moral and religious aim of the
school, its high standards of entrance and of
class work, its fine new buildings and well-
equipped laboratories and library, prepare a
faithful student for a life of wide usefulness.
GEORGE RICE HOVEY, President
InlueraitQ
This institution of learning, established in 1865,
has industrial departments for both young men
and young women, as well as collego, normal and
preparatory departments. There are also Schools
of Law, Medicmo, Pharmacy and Theology.
The facilities have recently been increased.
Other improvements are being planned that will
be completed within the next two years.
Applications should be made several months or
a year in advance, for it has become impossible
during the last few years to receive all who
apply. The present enrollment is over 500.
The acodemic year begins on the Thursday
nearest the first day of October and continues for
thirty-two consecutive weeks. Tho charges are
moderate. Catalogues furnished upon application.
Address THE PRESIDENT
Shaw UnlycraUy, Raloigb, N. 0,
FORWARD
MARCH YOUR SON OFF TO
Wilberforce University
The only school in the country for
Negro Youth which has a Military De-
Sartment equipped by the National
overnment, ana commanded by a detailed
United 8tates Army Officer.
DEPARTMENTS
MILITARY	SCIENTIFIC
NORMAL	TECHNICAL
COMMERCIAL	THEOLOGICAL
CLASSICAL	MUSICAL
PREPARATORY
Banking taught by the actual operations
in the Students' Savings Bank. Twelve
Industries, 180 acres of beautiful campus,
Ten Buildings. Healthful surroundings,
exceptional community. Maintained in
part by the State of Ohio which supplies
facilities for the thorough training of
teachers.
Fall term began September 19th, 1911.
Write for Catalog.
W. S. SCARBOROUGH, President
WM. A. JOINER. Superintendent, 0. N.
I.	Department.
Address all communications to
BOX 30	WTLBERFORCE, OHIO
Mention Th« Cuaia.
THE CRISIS
ADVERTISER
49
Atlanta Uapttat (Enl Uge
ATLANTA, GEORGIA
Established 1867
A School for Boys and Men
DEPARTMENTS:
GRADES	FINE EQUIPMENT
ACADEMY	STRONG FACULTY
COLLEGE	DIVINITY SCHOOL
Societies, Debating Clubs and Athletics.
For further information address
JOHN HOPE, President.
American Church Institute
for Negroes
SET SCHOOLS
The Bishop Payne Divinity School, Peters-
burgh, Va., Warden, the Reverend C. B. Bryan,
D.D.; St. Augustine's School, Raleigh, N. 0., for
normal and collegiate training, the Reverend A.
B. Hunter, Principal; the St. Paul Normal and
Industrial School, Lawrenceville, Va., the Rev-
erend James S. Russell, Principal; St. Atha-
nasius’ School, Brunswick, Ga., Mr. A. N. Perry,
Principal; St. Mark’s School, Birmingham, Ala.,
the Reverend C. W. Brooks, Principal- the
Vicksburg Industrial School, Vicksburg, Miss.,
the Reverend W. H. Marshall, Principal. For
information apply to the principal at any school
or to the Reverend Samuel H. Bishop, General
Agent, 416 Lafayette Street, New York City.
BOOKS
Publications of the N. A. A. C. P.
The N. A. A. C. P. has for sale the following
pamphlets:
1.	Disfranchisement: A powerful argument by
the Rev. John Haynes Holmes.
2.	Education in the South: Facts about the
discrimination against the Negro. By the Rev.
Horace Bumstead, former president of Atlanta
University.
3.	The Real Race Problem: A scientific com-
parison of the black and the white man by
America’s foremost anthropologist, Prof. Boas, of
Columbia University.
4.	Social Control. By Jane Addams, of Hull
House.
5.	The Negro as a Soldier. By Brigadier-
General Burt, U. S. A.
FIVE CENTS EACH. THREE DOLLARS A HUNDRED
The Curie of Race Prejudice
James F. Mobton, Jb., A.M., Author and Publisher
Forceful, rational, comprehensive. An arsenal
of facts and unanswerable arguments. Invaluable
for propaganda. Read the chapter on “The Bug-
bear of Social Equality,’’ which is a veritable
eye-opener. Thousands already sold. Agents
wanted everywhere.
PRICE 25 CENTS
Address the Author at 244 West 143d Street,
New York, N. Y.
Do you like the
CHRISTMAS CRISIS?
If so, write us.
“A noteworthy book of the epoch.”
The Souls of
Black Folk
By W. E. BURGHARDT DU BOIS
Eighth Edition
“It is one of the noteworthy
books, not merely of a year, but of
the epoch. Its every page is filled
with vigor, spontaneity and spirit-
uality. **—Boston Transcript.
“A stripping bare of the moral
and mental anatomy of the African
in America so as to reveal the naked
soul in its primitive simplicity,
seared and scarred by ages of suf-
fering. “—New York Age.
With Author’s Portrait, $1.20 Net
At book stores or from the publishers
A. C. McCLURG & CO.
CHICAGO
PUBLICATIONS
A. M. E. Book Concern Philadelphia, Pa.
THE POEMS OF PHILLIS WHEATLEY.
Reprint of first edition 1773; a valuable book.
Price, $1.00.
THE NEGRO PROBLEM. An analysis: What
It Is Not and What It Is; by R. R. Wright, Jr.
In pamphlet form, 15 cents.
THE COLORED REGULARS. By T. G.
Steward, Chaplain U. S. A., retired. Pnce, $1.50.
EVOLUTION AND LIFE. By Algernon B.
Jackson, Surgeon-in-chief Mercy Hospital. Price,
75 cents.
THE NEGRO IN PENNSYLVANIA. A Study
in Economic History; By R. R. Wright, Jr.,
Sometime Research Fellow in Sociology in the
University of Pennsylvania. (Ready Nov. 15th.)
Price, Paper, $2.00; Cloth, $2.50.
Address
A. M. E. BOOK CONCERN
631 Pine Street,	Philadelphia, Pa.
Atlanta University
Studies of the
Negro Problems
15 Monographs. Sold Separately.
Address:
A. G. DILL
Atlanta University, Atlanta, Ga.
Mention The Cbisis.
30
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
THE LIFE AND WORKS OF
Paul Laurence D unb
ar
Containing his complete poetical works, his best short
stories, numerous anecdotes and a complete biography of
the famous poet.
By
LIDA KECK WIGGINS
And an introduction by
WILLIAM DEAN HOWELLS
From ’’Lyric* of Lowly Life
Profusely illustrated with over half a hundred full-page
photo and half-tone engravings.
Cloth $2 Half Morocco $2.75 Full Morocco $3.75
----------------- SALES AGENT ---------------
J. G. GUILES
214A St. Antione Street	Montreal, Can.
National Negro Doll Company’s Special Price List of
NEGRO DOLLS
FOR THE CHRISTMAS SEASON, 1911 -1912
CLASS A
Size		Price	Size	
12	inch		$1.00	21	inch.
15	inch		. 1.50	26	inch
17	inch		. 2.25	30	inch
18	inch		. 2.75	32	inch
20	inch		. 3.00	36	inch
	No order will be sent	C. O. D.,	unless	a part
Price
$3.50
5.25
6.25
8.00
8.50
the order, as people often order C. O. D. and do not take them from the
express office.
The company has on deposit at the One-Cent Savings Bank, in Nashville,
Tenn., sufficient funds to guarantee the return of all moneys where orders
cannot be filled.
You will be allowed to examine dolls at express office. Send 5 cents
for a Doll Book.
NATIONAL NEGRO DOLL COMPANY
R.	H. BOYD, President
519 Second Avenue, North
H.	A. BOYD, Manager
NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE
Mention Ths Csisis.
THE CRISIS
Vol ume Three
DECEMBER, 1911	Number Two
ALONG
COLOR
	SOCIAL UPLIFT.
The	Negro population in the United
States	has grown as follows, according
to the	latest census figures:
1790 .	..	757,208 —
1800 .	.. 1.002.037 —
1810 .	.. 1,377,808 —
1820 .	.. 1,771,656 	
1830 .	.. 2,328,642 	
1840 .	.. 2.873.64S	
1850 .	.. 3,638,SOS 	
1S60 .	.. 4,441,830
1870 .	.. 4,880.009 	
1880 .	.. 6.580.793 	■
1890 .	.. 7,470,004 		
1900 .	.. S,833,994 			
1910 .	.. 9.828.294
CJ Great increase in circulation is shown
in the report for the year ending Au-
gust 31, of the colored branch of the
Louisville Public Library; 65,175 being
the number of books loaned. The cir-
culation for the past six years is as fol-
lows: First year 17,838; second year,
30.259; third year, 35.910; fourth year,
50,386; fifth year, 58,870; sixth year,
65,175.
<J In Indianapolis and Columbus, O.,
efforts are being made to erect colored
branches of the Y. M. C. A. In Indian-
apolis the colored people secured in ten
days subscriptions of $104,726.18. A site
is now being sought and the construc-
tion of the building will be rushed. In
Columbus, O., the colored people expect
to raise $8,000 to supplement the $12,000
furnished by the Central Y. M. C. A.
q The Hospital and Health Board of
Kansas City has turned over the old
City Hospital to a colored staff of physi-
cians and surgeons after a fight of sev-
eral years. About $20,000 has been spent
in remodeling the buildings. The hos-
pital will have four internes annually and
a training school for about twenty
nurses.
<3 The General Educational Board re-
ports that it has contributed since its
founding between $600,000 and $700,000
to forty-one schools for Negroes. In
only one case has money been given
to an institution for higher training,
although funds have been promised Fisk
University if it meets some very difficult
conditions.
q The Mohonk conference on depend-
ent people has had another meeting at
Mr. Smiley’s hotel, where the above-men-
tioned people are not expected to stop.
<J The White Rose Industrial Associa-
tion of New York reports 1,182 free
lodgings given during the year 1910; 960
paid lodgings and 795 meals. It has
helped 226 persons to find work; has
given forty-three meetings and enter-
tainments. The total receipts have been
$3,625.
<3 The Common Well-Fare Club of the
District of Columbia is a movement
among colored people and white friends
for better housing conditions, elimination
of the alleys, the strengthening of col-
ored social settlements and similar work.
q The inscription to be placed on
the new City Hall in Oakland, Cal., was
written by P. J. Randall, a colored
lawyer.
<3 Colored people in many parts of the
country have been holding meetings to
honor the memory of the late Justice
Harlan.
52
THE CRISIS
q A Music School Settlement for Ne-
groes began classes Monday, November
20, at 202 West 63d Street. The school
is under the direction of David Mannes,
David Irwin Martin and Miss Helen
Elise Smith. Careful instruction is given
daily at twenty-five cents a lesson.
<3 The colored congregational churches
and Straight University are trying to
establish a social settlement in New
Orleans.
<3 Charles C. Atwater, of Springfield,
Mass., left a number of charitable be-
quests, among which was $5,000 to the
Brooklyn Home for Aged Colored
People. Elizabeth K. Steele has left
$1,000 to the Home for Aged Colored
People at Philadelphia.
<3 The Texas organization of colored
physicians with fifty members has met
and discussed questions of health and
sanitation.
<3 About $70,000 will be distributed to
various institutions for colored people
according to the will of Ann M. Fisher,
a colored woman of Brooklyn. Hampton
and Tuskegee each get $10,000; $5,000
goes to the Siloam Presbyterian Church,
and there are various other charitable
and personal bequests. The large residue
of the estate will go to Francis H. Gil-
bert, a colored lawyer, who acts as execu-
tor of the will.
q Philip Brookins, a colored man who
recently died at Richmond, Ind., gave
$2,250 to the Reed Memorial Hospital.
The gift was made on account of a favor
done Brookins several years ago by a
New York millionaire, formerly of
Richmond.
CJ Representatives from twenty-five
counties in the State of Oklahoma have
met and formed a Negro Law and Order
League.
<| Three organizations in New York
City—the Association for Improving the
Industrial Condition of Negroes in New
York, the National League for the Pro-
tection of Colored Women and the Com-
mittee on Urban Conditions Among Ne-
groes—have united into the National
League on Urban Conditions Among
Negroes. The purpose of the new organ-
ization is to do constructive and pre-
ventive social work for improving the
social and economic conditions among
Negroes in urban centers, to secure and
train social workers and to make certain
social studies.
During the last year these organiza-
tions have collected facts concerning
twenty local societies and institutions,
made a survey in the H*arlem district,
superintended fresh-air work among
Negroes, operated a model camp and
secured funds for a playground. Pro-
fessor E. R. A. Seligman is chairman of
the executive committee of the new or-
ganization, and Mr. Eugene K. Jones is
the field secretary.
<3 In Indianapolis a memorial is being
planned for the late Judge Stubbs. Two
small colored boys stood in front of the
memorial headquarters lately. For a
long time they examined carefully the
pictures in the window, and then one of
them timidly thrust his head through the
door.
‘‘Is dis de place where yo’ all give
money to Judge Stubbs?" he asked.
Miss Alice Graydon, who has charge
of the headquarters, invited the boys in
and endeavored to make clear to them
the purpose of receiving contributions.
Finally they indicated that they under-
stood what it was all about and started
to leave the room. At the door they
stopped and discussed the matter in low .
tones. Then they returned to Miss Gray-
don’s desk and handed her six cents.
“Dis am all we can dig up jis’ now,"
explained one of them. “We’ll see de
other newsies. Maybe dey all will gib
something."
<3 The colored Y. M. C. A. of Philadel-
phia has started to raise $25,000 to pur-
chase and equip a building.
<3 At Tampa, Fla., the white people re-
cently built a fine hospital for them-
selves, but made no provision for the
Negroes. As a result the Dunbar Lit-
erary Society has started a Negro hos-
pital movement.
POLITICAL.
The statements of several of the par-
ties during the campaign show here and
there the extent to which colored men
in the North hold political office. In New
York City, for instance, it is said that
Tammany Hall in the last fourteen years
has appointed the following Negro offi-
cials: Assistant District Attorney, As-
sistant Corporation Counsel, Deputy
Commissioner of Taxes, 27 inspectors of
various kinds, 19 clerks and stenog-
raphers, 20 messengers and some 400
laborers.
In Cleveland, O., there are said to be
175 colored men under the city adminis-
tration, drawing the sum of $87,560 a
year in wages. These men include a
member of the city council and seven
clerks and inspectors.
q When the Republican National Com-
mittee meets in Washington in Decem-
ber, Senator Jonathan Bourne will revive
the old plan of basing representation in
the nominating conventions on the party
vote cast rather than on population. This
would reduce the representation of the
Southern States approximately as fol-
lows: Alabama, 24 to 7; Arkansas, 18 to
10; Florida, 12 to 5; Georgia, 28 to 9;
ALONC THE
COLOR LINE
53
Louisiana, 20 to 5; Mississippi, 20 to 5;
North Carolina, 24 to 17; Oklahoma, 20
to 16; South Carolina, 18 to 4; Tennessee,
24 to 17; Texas, 40 to 11 and Virginia,
24 to 10.
Kentucky, Maryland and Missouri, all
border States, would receive increases as
follows: Kentucky, 26 to 31; Maryland,
16 to 17; Missouri, 36 to 43.
q The white Republican politicians of
Georgia held a meeting in Macon from
which colored men were excluded. The
white men claim that the blame for this
was on the hotel; but the Negroes say
that this is an attempt to start a “Lily
White" Republican organization in
Georgia.
q Careful organization among Negroes
in Maryland did much to defeat the dis-
franchisement amendment. Sixty-five
colored women volunteered their aid to
teach the Negroes how to manipulate the
difficult ballot.
q The colored voters of Memphis have
been questioning the candidates for
mayor to know what they intend to do
after election. Both candidates were
asked if they would give colored people
police protection in the use of public
parks; if they would eliminate saloons
from Negro residence districts; if they
would allow colored physicians and
nurses to attend colored patients in city
hospitals; if they would have colored
physicians to examine the children in
colored schools, and if they would close
policy shops. Both candidates, with some
evasions, practically promised all these
things.
q In Philadelphia a considerable portion
of the colored vote helped elect Rudolph
Blankenburg as reform Mayor. The ma-
jority of the Negro vote, however, went
to the Republican machine candidate.
q In Pueblo, Colorado, Leroy James,
the only Negro candidate in the first elec-
tion under Pueblo’s new charter, drew
first position on the ballot. The eighty-
seven candidates drew lots for positions.
q In- the proposed reorganization plan
of West Virginia two members of the
Republican State Committee-at-Large
are to be colored men.
q Mayor Howse, of Nashville, Tenn.,
owes his re-election very largely to the
Negro vote.
q In Chester, Pa., William H. Mack, a
well-known colored man, was candidate
the select council.
q One hundred and fifty delegates of
the Coalition League met in Springfield,
Illinois, and adopted resolutions declar-
ing themselves opposed to all present
political parties. They urge the seventy-
five thousand colored voters of the State
to vote independently.
q The Negro vote played an important
part in the Norfolk, Va., election. In-
deed, there are growing signs through-
out the South of the revival of the polit-
ical importance of colored men.
EDUCATION.
Fisk University, the Negro college of
Nashville, Tenn., has secured $119,000 of
the $300,000 to be raised in order to re-
ceive the General F.ducation Board’s
appropriation of $60,000; $200,000 of this
lund is for endowment. This effort to
put a first-class college on its feet de-
serves the co-operation of all.
Mr. Julius Rosenwald, the Chicago
merchant who has given so much to col-
ored Y. M. C. A. work, has been making
a trip to the South. He visited Fisk
University, Meharry Medical College and
Tuskegee. While at Fisk he said, “I
wish to express my optimism upon the
future of the colored people in America.
We have every reason to feel that they
are making strides forward. I am very
glad to have the’ opportunity of seeing
a work that I had no idea existed in the
manner it does exist."
q The entire student body of the State
Agricultural and Mechanical College at
Greensboro has been in open rebellion
on account of the increase of industrial
work at the expense of academic work,
and the introduction of Saturday class
work.
q On Tuesday, October 10, the Rev. M.
W. Gilbert was inaugurated president of
Selma University. Representatives of
many colored institutions of the South
were present and made addresses.
<J The Missouri Negro Teachers’ Asso-
ciation convened in Hannibal. The State
Teachers’ Association of Florida will
meet at Jacksonville during the Christ-
mas holidays. The South Alabama Col-
ored Teachers’ Association met in Mo-
bile with several hundred people in at-
tendance.
q In South Carolina Negro school chil-
dren outnumber the whites; the cost of
the respective school systems is, how-
ever, as follows: Whites, $1,684,976;
Negroes, $368,802.
q In Texas there are 199,915 Negro chil-
dren of scholastic age, for each of whom
the State apportions $6.S0, or a total of
$1,359,422.^ and there are 791,494 white
children, ior whom there is apportioned
$5,382,159, making a total apportionment
of the State available school funds bv
the State Board of Education for the cur-
rent year of $6,741,581. This is the larg-
est apportionment of State available
school funds ever made in the his tor v
of the State for any scholastic year.
q The new colored school at Ivy City.
District of Columbia, has been presented
54
THE CRISIS
with a life-size portrait of Alexander
Crummell, after whom it is named, by
the Negro Society for Historical Re-
search.
<J The new superintendent of New Or-
leans has recommended that all the col-
ored public schools have colored teach-
ers, but so far his recommendation has
been ignored. Several of the New Or-
leans colored schools have white teach-
ers.
q The large increase of students at the
colored high schools in Washington will
lead to seven companies in the cadet
battalion instead of six. It is possible,
therefore, that the battalion may be or-
ganized as a regiment.
q The cornerstone of Berea’s new school
for Negroes, to be known as the “Lin-
coln Institute of Kentucky,” was laid in
Shelby County, Ky., by the president of
Berea. The school has 440 acres of land
and the first buildings will cost $110,000.
Other buildings will bring the cost up to
over a million.
q The Negro Baptists of Texas have
raised more than $17,000 for their own
educational institutions during the last
year.
q Miss Bessie Bruington, a colored girl,
has been appointed to the public schools
Off; Los Angeles, Cal.
CHURCH.
The Christian Recorder says: “When
Bishop Walters rose before the Ecu-
menical Conference at Toronto and said
that the statistics of his church had al-
ways been wrong, and that the church
did not want to publish the correct sta-
tistics because they would show many
thousand fewer members than it was pre-
tended the church had, we all hung our
heads. Yet we all knew the statement
of the bishop was true, not only of the
A. M. E. Zion Church, but our own
church as well. We claimed 800,000 mem-
bers at the General Conference, while the
census gave us less than 500,000, and
Bishop Lee is unable to find now more
than 600,000.”
q The eighteenth annual session of the
Afro-American Presbyterian Council was
held in Philadelphia. It is composed of
ministers and laymen in New York,
Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware,
Maryland and the District of Columbia.
CJ Plymouth Congregational Church,
Washington, D. C., has celebrated its
thirtieth anniversary.
John R. Hawkins, secretary of educa-
tion of the A. M. E. Church, reports that
during the last year the colored people
have raised $32,660 for the colored
schools. That these schools have 210
teachers and 5,718 pupils.
MEETINGS.
Among the Negro fairs recently held
the most important was the Georgia col-
ored State fair at Macon. Among the
attractions were a colored aviator, an
education day and a woman’s day. There
was a display of models of battleships
sent by the United States Government.
At Raleigh, N. C., the fair was a great
success.
Other fairs were held at Dyersburg,
Tenn.; Tuscombia, Ala.;. Troup County,
Ga.; Limestone County, Ala.; Nanse-
mond County, Va.; Augusta, Ga.; Mont-
gomery, Ala.; Datesburg, S. C.; Chester
County, S. C.; Charlotte, N. C., and Utica,
Miss.
q Meetings of protest against lynching
have been held in Milwaukee, Wis.; Jer-
sey City, N. J., and Hoboken, N. J.
A memorial service for the late Sarah
J. Garnet was held in Brooklyn.
ECONOMICS.
Many colored men who are in favor
of labor unions are finding that after they
get into the union they are discriminated
against.
q The Marine Cooks’ and Stewards’
Union of the Atlantic Coast is forcing
the Negroes to join, and then “Jim-crow-
ing” them in all possible ways.
<3 One of the most outrageous cases is
the attempt of the Pavers’ Union in New
York to get rid of the colored pavers.
During the panic of 1907 the colored
pavers got behind in their’ dues to the
National Union. The constitution says
that if a union is three months in arrears
it may be suspended, but may appeal to
the executive committee or to the na-
tional meeting, and be reinstated on pay-
ment of dues. The colored union got
three months in arrears on Friday; on
Monday they tendered their dues in full.
The treasurer not only refused to receive
the dues, but the white union immedi-
ately got an injunction against the col-
ored pavers, and this injunction took
away from them even the right to appeal
to the executive committee or to the
national meeting. For three years and
four months the Negroes have been fight-
ing this monstrous injunction, but the
white lawyer whom they hired took their
money and did nothing. Finally they got
a colored lawyer, and the court imme-
diately raised the injunction, but on con-
dition that they pay $348 to the white
union as reimbursement for the expense
of the injunction. With some help from
the National Association for the Ad-
vancement of Colored People, the colored
union paid this sum and is now taking
full steps to get back its rights,
q The report of the chief of the State
Bureau of Industrial Statistics of Penn-
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
55
sylyania shows that in 150 selected indus-
tries there arc 475,453 native Americans
employed, 325,489 foreigners and 6,862
Negroes. The latter, while few in num-
ber, have increased, especially in indus-
tries requiring skill. There are 2,663 Ne-
groes in the bituminous coal mines and
1,585 in iron and steel industries. In fer-
tilizer plants there are also a good many
Negroes employed.
<3 Charles Richie, of Washington, D. C.,
has invented a device for registering tele-
phone calls, which is being considered by
various companies.
<3 Negro secret societies are about to es-
tablish the Fraternal Bank and Trust
Company of Texas, with a capital of
$100,000.
Public Printer Samuel B. Donnelly is
being antagonized by the labor unions of
Washington, D. C. The difficulty arose
over the strike of bricklayers employed
on a garage which is being built under
Donnelly’s supervision. The union men
refused to work with a Negro, who, the
Public Printer said, had been certified
by the Civil Service Commission as a
bricklayer. Non-union men were taken
on by Donnelly to complete the work.
Persons interested in fair play ought to
write to President Taft commending
Donnelly’s position.
^ Heretofore colored men have not been
employed in the anthracite coal mines.
At present about 3,000 are being imported
into the anthracite region of Pennsyl-
vania.
<J Mound Bayou. Miss., is about to open
an oil mill. A frame warehouse and a
two-story brick structure have already
been erected at a cost of nearly $80,000.
They expect to have the wiieels turning
about January 1.
<3 The colored people of Jackson, Miss.,
pay taxes on $1,000,000 worth of prop-
erty. The Jackson Daily News adds thai
the home-owning class are “quiet, and
as a rule good citizens.”
A great many accidents are reported
to Negro workmen, showing that very
little precaution is taken by employers
where a large number of colored men are
employed. This month 17 deaths are re-
ported in various industrial establish-
ments.
ART.
September 28, at the Worcester (Mass.)
Festival, the first public performance in
America was given of the Fourth Sym-
phony, Op. 64, in D minor, North, East,
South and West,” by Henry Hadley, the
American conductor-composer. This sym-
phony was written for the Norfolk Fes-
tival and was originally performed there
last June. The third movement of the
symphony, the South, is a scherzo and is
of Negro character throughout, whim-
sical and full of good humor. It does
riot touch the more sombre or plaintive
aspects of the Negro character.
<3 Brindis de Salas, a colored violinist of
concert fame in Europe, has died in pov-
erty in Buenos Ayres. He was a Cuban,
sixty years of age. Found among his
effects were many decorations, including
tokens of appreciation from the German
Emperor and the King of Italy.
<3 Miss Hazel Harrison, pianist, of La
Porte, Ind., is now in Germany, and is
to appear in Berlin and other European
cities.
<3 The Washington (D. C.) Conserva-
tory of Music announces the appoint-
ment of Miss Grcgoria Fraser, pianist,
who will teach the Burrowe’s kinder-
garten method of music study. Miss
Fraser is a graduate of the Conservatory
of Syracuse, New York.
Q October 18 the violinist, Mr. Clarence
Cameron White, virtuoso in the com-
mand of his instrument and feeling for it,
gave a recital at the Oberlin Conserva-
tory of Music, the institution of which
he was formerly a student.
<3 “From the Green Heart of the
Waters,” a chorus for ladies’ voices, by
Samuel Coleridge-Taylor, was one of the
■test pieces sung at the Royal National
Eisteddfod of Wales, August 8-11. Mr.
Coleridge-Taylor was delegated to
deliver the awards.
<3 The Alberta Musical Competition Fes-
tival of 1911, open to musicians of the
Far 'Northwest, was held in Edmonton,
Canada, in May. The festival concluded
with “Hiawatha’s Wedding Feast,” by
Mr. Coleridge-Taylor, the cantata chosen
for the choral competition.
<J Mme. Maud Powell, the distinguished
and remarkable violinist, has transcribed
for the violin and piano the piano tran-
scription “Deep River,” a Negro melody
secured from American sources by Mr.
Coleridge-Taylor. It is a brilliant con-
cert number, played with success by
Mme. Powell, and lately furnished by
her as a record for the Victor talking
machine.
CJ The Schirmer Company, one of the
leading musical publishing houses, an-
nounces among their recent publications
“Poeme Erotique,” for piano, by Mr.
Mellville Charlton. Mr. Charlton is as-
sistant organist at Temple Emanu-El in
New York City.
<3 “Scenes from an Imaginary Ballet,” a
suite of imaginative subtlety composed
for the pianoforte by Mr. Samuel Cole-
ridge-Taylor, is another of the Schirmer
publications. It has been declared by
the reviewers that the composer has
never written anything more rarely dis-
tinctive than this poetically conceived
suite.
56
THE CRISIS
<3 The annual concert of the Clef Club
of New York, under the leadership of
James Reese Europe, took place Novem-
ber 9 before an audience of several thou-
sand. The new compositions by Europe,
Burleigh and others showed remarkable
power. A sketch of the work of this
club will appear in a later number of
The Crisis.
THE COURT.
At Shreveport, La., a judge has decided
that a colored woman cannot occupy a
berth in a sleeper, even as a servant.
A police magistrate has decided that
the segregation ordinance of Suffolk is
unconstitutional.
<1 In Columbus, O., Graham Duell, a col-
ored lawyer, went into a confectionery
store for soda water and was refused by
the proprietor. Mr. Duell brought suit.
Sections 4426-2 of the Revised Statutes
of Ohio provide in part “That any per-
son who shall violate any of the provi-
sions of the foregoing section by deny-
ing to any citizen, except for reasons ap-
plicable alike to all citizens of every race
and color, and regardless of color or
race, the full enjoyment of any of the
accommodations, advantages, facilities or
privileges in said section enumerated, or
by aiding or inciting such denial shall,
for every such offense, forfeit and pay
a sum of not less than $50 nor more than
$500 to the person aggrieved thereby, to
be recovered in any court of competent
jurisdiction in the county where the said
offense was committed.”
The case was tried before a jury, but
the judge took it out oi the hands of the
jury and ordered a verdict of acquittal.
Mr. Duell will, however, take the case to
the Circuit Court.	^
<] It is said that the colored Elks have
won their right to exist in Virginia.
<J In Indianapolis, Ind., a justice of the
peace has decided that no restaurant may
refuse the patronage of Negroes. This
is the first decision in a criminal case
of this kind ever given in Indiana.
CRIME.
On March 19 Mr. Booker T. Washing-
ton, principal of Tuskegee Institute
while seeking admittance to an apartment
house on West Sixty-third Street, New
York, was severely beaten by a white
man named Ulrich, helped by several by-
standers. Ulrich was about to have Mr.
Washington arrested, when Mr. Wash-
ington revealed his identity and the
police arrested Ulrich for felonious as-
ault. At the hearing the charge was
hanged to simple assault. After much
day and many postponements the case
as finally tried by three justices in Spe-
al Sessions on November 6. The mam
facts as to the beating were admitted by
both sides, but Ulrich justified the attack
on the ground that Mr. Washington had
no business at the house and had insulted
the woman who lived with Ulrich, but
who was not his wife. Mr. Washington
contended that he was trying to find Mr.
D. C. Smith, auditor of Tuskegee, whom
he thought was living at the house with
a family whose name Mr. Washington
had forgotten. Mr. Smith did not appear
as witness. By a vote of two to one
Ulrich was acquitted.
<3 In Oklahoma there has been a race
war, the cause of which is difficult to
know. Colored papers say that it started
in a gambling hell with colored and white
gamblers. Whitepapers report that the
trouble was caused by a colored man run-
ning against a white woman and pushing
her off the sidewalk. The whites tried to
lynch a Negro, but were scared to hear
that the colored people were rising. The
result was a widespread panic and the
report that 10,000 Negroes were march-
ing on the town. The militia were imme-
diately sent to the town, and they pro-
ceeded to disarm che colored people. In
all it seems that two were killed, one
white and one colored man, and three
wounded in this affair.
*1 At Honeapath, S. C., a Negro named
Willis Jackson was lynched on October
10 under circumstances particularly
shameless, even for this shameless year.
He was accused of attacking a ten-year-
old child and was hanged to a tree by
his feet and riddled with bullets. His
fingers were cut off for souvenirs after-
ward. The little girl had been taking a
cow to pasture when she said the man
assaulted her. She “got away from the
brute,” says the account, and on her way
home met a'man to whom she told the
story. The lynching followed. The mob
was led by the local member of the State
Legislature, Joshua W. Ashley, and his
son, while Victor B. Cheshire, editor of
the local paper, the Intelligencer, and one
of Governor Blease’s staff, took part and
got out a special edition of his paper to
tell about it. “The lynching took place
at midnight,” he wrote, “and two hours
later the big press was grinding out
papers telling of the happy event.” * In
his account of the crime he tells how “the
Intelligencer man went out to see the fun
and with not the least objection to being
a party to help lynch the brute.” The
coroner’s jury found that the Negro had
come to his death “at the hands of per-
sons unknown,” but the better element of
South Carolina is stirred and demands an
investigation. The Anderson County
Ministers’ Conference passed resolutions
hotly condemning the lynching. In a re-
cent speech Governor Blease said he had
been informed by the sheriff of the sit-
uation and had Avired instructions to the
sheriff.
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
57
"The telegram to Sheriff King,” said
the Governor, "said: ‘Keep in touch with
the Honeapath affair and send me a re-
port to-morrow morning telling me what
is going on/
"Sheriff King received that telegram,
and he understood its meaning. Next
morning I received his report, and it was
exactly what I expected. As a matter of
fact, if it had been any different I would
have been greatly disappointed.”
The Governor went on to say that
rather than use the power of his office in
deterring white men from “punishing that
nigger brute,” he “would have resigned
the office and come to Honeapath and
led the mob.”
<J At Washington, Ga., a Negro charged
with murder was lynched October 28. At
Caruthersville, Mo., two Negroes were
lynched. The reason seems to be that
they were suspicious characters, and were
found hiding in the shrubbery by two
white girls.
In Manchester, Ga., a Negro was
lynched. Someone had assaulted the
yardmaster with a brick and he was sus-
pected.
At Marshall, Tex., a colored man
choked a white woman and demanded
matches of her daughter-in-law. He was
lynched.
At Dublin, Ga., a Negro was accused
of assaulting a white woman. He was
lynched.
At Forest City, Tenn., a Negro was
lynched. He was charged with attempt-
ing to assault a farmer's wife.
At Clarkesville, Tex., a colored man
was accused of attacking a white woman
and her mother. He \vas lynched.
At Meridian, Miss., a colored man was
lynched for striking a white man with
a stick.
At Irwinton, Ga., a colored man who
entered a white woman’s room and fled
at her cry was lynched.
For abusive language to a woman a
Negro was lynched at Hope, Ark.
Other unsuccessful attempts at lynch-
ing have been made at Arkansas, South
Carolina, North Carolina, Kansas and
New York City.
In Ozark, Ala., a colored man pursued
by a mob committed suicide.
<3 Policemen have killed their usual
quota of colored men.
In Houston, Tex., a Negro shot by a
policeman is at the point of death.
At Cambridge, Md., another Negro was
shot.
<J At Estherwood, La., a Negro was ac-
quitted by the United States Court, but
had to be put back in jail to keep him
from being lynched.
q On a New Orleans ferryboat a Negro
announced that he could whip any white
man on the boat. After a while several
white men started after him The result
is that two white men and the Negro
are dead, and two other white men se-
riously wounded.
<3 Joseph Dunlap, a white man, killed
Charles Middleton, a colored man, in
Sumter, S. C. There was no charge
against the murdered man, but the mur-
derer was angry at somebody else.
<3 In Lewisburg and Arcadia, small
towns near Birmingham, Ala., six white
men and eleven Negroes have been killed
during the past eighteen months. The
reason seems to be unknown, but the
sheriffs are at last threatening to look
into the matter.
<3 In Brunswick, Ga., L. O. O’Berry, a
white man, has been sentenced to hang
for killing a colored woman and her
daughter.
Q Two white men have been indicted
for the lynching of six Negroes at Lake
City, Fla., last spring.
AFRICA.
By the terms of the Morocco agree-
ment between France and Germany a
portion of the French Congo somewhat
larger than Kansas has been turned over
to Germany. it contains 1,000,000
Negroes.
*3 The report of the Lagos West Africa
Railway shows that the gross revenue
last year was over $1,000,000, and the
net profit $450,000. These are the largest
figures in the history of the railway.
Cj Serious news is being received from
Angola, the Portuguese possession in
Western Africa.
A revolt of the natives is spreading
rapidly, and they are burning and pillag-
ing everything in their path.
Notwithstanding the efforts of the gov-
ernment to conceal the situation from the
public, it is known to be precarious.
Tribes have attacked settlements and
massacred a number of Europeans, after
subjecting them to terrible tortures. The
number and nationality of the victims
are not known.
PERSONAL.
The Honorable T. McCants Stewart,
judge of the Supreme Court of the Re-
public of Liberia, has been making a
short business visit to the United States.
<31 Mr. L. H. Godman has been ap-
pointed special counsel in the Attorney-
General’s office in Columbus, O. Mr.
Godman was born in North Carolina in
18S0, and had his training at Ohio State
University and Howard University Law
School, and was admitted to the bar in
1906. The appointment coming -from a
Democratic official is regarded as very
significant.
<31 Mrs. Mary Church Terrell spoke at
the convention of the World’s Purity
Federation, at Columbus, O.
<J Mr. J. Q. Adams, editor and manager
of the Appeal, has just celebrated his sil-
ver jubilee at St. Paul, Minn.
MEN OF THE
MONTH

THE LATE JUSTICE HARLAN
THE FRIEND AT COURT.
The death of Justice John Marshall
Harlan, of the United States Supreme
Court, removes one of the best friends
of the Negro in this country. The
great Kentuckian had always stood, usu-
ally alone among the justices, against
any discrimination based on race. It
was he who gave the splendid dissent-
ing opinion as to the constitutionality
of the “Jim Crow’' laws. If it was legal
to draw a line between white and col-
ored persons, he said, in the schools
and on the railroads, it would be equally
legal so to separate Catholics and
Protestants, native born and immigrant:
He was old fashioned enough to be-
lieve that the declaration of the equality
of men before the law should be main-
tained. Since 1877 this good friend has
served on the Supreme Court bench,
and he died at the age of seventy-eight.
AN OLD FIGHTER.
We are glad to be able to give our
readers this month a photograph of Mr.
Peter Woods, eighty years of age, and,
so far as is known, the only living sur-
vivor of those who were indicted for
treason after the Christiania riot. At the
unveiling of the monument which marks
the historic spot of the “first bloodshed
of the Civil War” Mr. Woods was given
a commemorative medal.
We have received a number of letters
concerning the article on the Christiana
riot published in the October number of
The Crisis. Mr. E. H. Murray, of Chat-
ham, Ontario, tells us that William Par-
ker, after the fight in which he played
so heroic a part, settled in that town. Mr.
Pinckney, Parker’s associate, also settled
there.
BISHOP C. S. SMITH.
The colored Methodists of this country
were gratified at the Fourth Ecumenical
Methodist Conference, held in Toronto
October 4-17, by the honors shown to
various colored bishops. Perhaps the
most striking distinction was the con-
ferring of the degree of Doctor of Divin-
ity on Bishop C. S. Smith by Victoria
College of Toronto.
PETER WOODS
MEN OF THE MONTH
59
BISHOP C. S. SMITH
Bishop Alexander Walters of New
York, who succeeded in getting the
conference to pass a resolution deplor-
ing lynching, was the guest of honor
at a dinner given by the Methodist
Canadian Union. It was the first time
a colored delegate had been so distin-
guished.
A NEGRO COUNCILMAN.
For the first time in twenty-five years
Nashville has chosen a colored man as
city counsellor. Mr. Solomon Parker
Harris, in the last election, defeated his
white opponent by a vote .of 244 to 194.
The last Negro to serve in Nashville was
S. P. PARKER
the Hon. J. C- Napier, now Registrar of
the Treasury.
Mr. Harris was born in Mississippi in
1864 of parents sold to that State from
Virginia. He entered the public schools
at the age of ten and continued his
studies until he was graduated from Rust
University, Mississippi, in 1889 with the
degree of B. A. His father had died when
he was a little boy, and he was obliged
to work every step of the way up. In
1891 he was graduated from the Univer-
sity of Michigan law school. After prac-
ticing his profession for five years he en-
tered the National Baptist Publishing
House in Nashville, where he is now
employed.
JOSEPH PULITZER.
[Tho blind editor of the New York World
“Leiee, ganz leisel” His paper always treated
New York dailies.]
Softly, quite softly—
For I hear, above the murmur of the sea,
Faint and far-fallen footsteps, as of One
Who comes from out beyond the endless
ends of Time,
With voice that downward looms thro’
singing stars;
Its subtle sound I see thro’ these long-
darkened eyes,
I hear the Light He bringeth on his
hands—
Almighty Death!
Softly, oh, softly, lest he pass me by,
And that unquivering Light toward
which my longing soul
And tortured body through these years
have writhed,
Fade to the dun darkness of my days.
Softly, full softly, let me rise and greet
The strong, low luting of that long-
awaited call;
Swiftly be all my good and going gone,
And this vast veiled and vanquished
vigor of my soul
died October 29, 1911, murmuring in German,
black folk fairly, in marked contrast to most
Seek somehow otherwhere its rest and
goal,
Where endless spaces stretch,
Where endless time doth moan,
Where endless light doth pour
Thro’ the black kingdoms of eternal
death.
Then haply I may see what things I
have not seen,
Then I may know what things I have not
known;
Then may I do my dreams!
Farewell! No sound of idle mourning
let there be
To shudder this full silence—save the
voice
Of children—little children, white and
black,
Whispering the deeds I tried to do for
them;
While I at last unguided and alone
Pass—softly, full softly.
—W. E. B. D. in the N. Y. World.
LYNCHERS TRIUMPHANT.
This is the headline of a stirring edi-
torial in the Evening Post. The failure
of justice at Coatesville, it says, is com-
plete. The lynchers are triumphant, but
not only in Coatesville.
"Bofore us," says the Post, "lies the
Topeka Plaindealer with the horrible
story of the lynching at Durant, Okla-
homa—on the same day as the Coates-
ville burning—of an unknown Negro.
Here the white fiends who shot down the
man without giving him a chance to de-
fend himself were so proud of' their
work that they bound the body to some
planks, and, as the picture before us
shows, posed around their victim while
the photographer recorded the scene.
Even with such proof, we are sure, a
Coatesville jury would acquit. In Okla-
homa apparently nobody has stirred, de-
spite this convincing evidence. The
lynchers are on top. Their victim was
a stranger in a strange land; the woman
in the case identified him after the
mob had killed him—what else could she
do, in the presence of a half-drunken and
violent mob? Then these exponents of
American civilization piled fagots around
the body and danced around the fire as
it consumed their victim. Is it any won-
der that the Plaindealer begs every Ne-
gro newspaper in the country to reprint
this cut, that ‘the world may see and
know what semi-barbarous America is
doing;’ and may know how they scorn
the ‘white ministers and Christian work-
ers who are bent on Christianizing the
heathen Chinese?"
"The lynchers are on top—near
Charleston, South Carolina. There a
despicable wretch was lynched two
weeks ago. It was done, says the
Charleston Evening Post, in the ‘most
approved and up-to-date fashion.’ Auto-
mobiles filled with ‘prominent citizens’
took part in the chase. ‘Among those
present’ was a Representative in the
General Assembly, the Honorable
Joshua Ashley, who with his son took
the prisoner from the Sheriff. But, of
course, now that the event is over, no-
body knows anything about the crime.
"The lynchers are almost on top in
New York. Two police officers have re-
cently shot innocent Negroes without
the slightest excuse, seeking revenge ap-
parently for the wanton killing of a
policeman by a Negro last spring- In
one case the victim is probably crippled
for life; the detective who shot him has
been suspended for three months—and
the majesty of the law is upheld! The
other day a Negro who got into a dis-
pute in a drug store was so frightfully
beaten by the police that the magistrate
before whom the victim was brought
protested hotly. With such official sanc-
tion for abusing men because of their
color, is it any wonder that a mob the
other night tried to lynch a colored man
who, for all they knew, was but using
his revolver in self-defense? An actual
killing in the streets may take place any
day, as it did in the draft riots of 1863.
Who shall say when, in a gust of pas-
sion, a street crowd in New York will
not slay guilty and innocent alike?
"Is it any wonder that the colored peo-
ple are looking to Washington for aid?
The Topeka Plaindealer declares that it
must seem .to foreigners the height of
hypocrisy for President Taft to be talk-
ing about peace among nations when
such diabolical acts of private war at
home go on unchecked. As for The
Crisis, which speaks for the educated
colored man, it asks the President how
he can keep silent, ‘in the face of a rec-
ord of murder, lynching and burning in
this country which has appalled the civi-
lized world.’ Certainly, there are no
topics the President has discussed on
his present trip that are of equal mo-
ment with the question of the rule of
the mob. The lynchers are on top,
North, South, East and West."
The New York World once again
champions the Negro in an editorial en-
titled "The Crime of Being a Negro."
It says:
"In a Georgia town widely known as
a model community a mob last week
took a Negro from jail and lynched him
for the offense of striking a white man.
In an Oklahoma city on Sunday a Negro
was taken from the hands of a deputy
sheriff and riddled with bullets for kill-
ing the City Attorney and shooting two
other white citizens in a riot provoked
by a Negro who pushed a white woman
from the sidewalk.
"In neither case had ‘the usual crime’
OPINION
61
been committed by the victim of the
mob's vengeance and in neither was
there the excuse that the honor of
women had to be protected by making
.an example of the culprit. There was no
occasion to fear that either malefactor
would escape justice. The Negro
lynched in Georgia was in a cell await-
ing punishment, and the Negro lynched
in Oklahoma was in safe custody.
“The mobs which have made these ad-
ditions to the ghastly record of blood
vengeance in a civilized country may at
least be credited with tearing the veil
of pretense from the plea that Negroes
are lynched in defense of American
womanhood. When Negroes are sum-
marily put to death without trial and
without discrimination for offenses as
far removed in heinousness as simple
assault and murder, the theory is en-
forced that justice in this country is
for the white man and not for the Negro.
“It is something to have lynching freed
of its hypocrisy: but with what a sar-
donic commentary on the equality of all
Americans under the law without dis-
tinction of color."
The Lincoln (Neb.) Journal remarks
that white people “unconsciously as-
sign superiority" to the black man by
expecting him perpetually to show a
self-restraint the whites cannot attain.
“But," says the Journal, “the Negro is
probably no better than the white man.
When he is reviled he is tempted, even
as ourselves, to revile again. For the
last three months there has been an
epidemic of lynchings of Negroes in
various parts of the country. One of
the most brutal of these occurred some
time ago in Oklahoma. Confidently as-
suming that the Negro would love his
enemies, we are surprised now to find
the Negroes about Coweta showing a
rebellious spirit, one of them committing
murder and the rest inclined to back
him up and wipe out the whites there-
about."
The Washington (D.	C-) Herald
strikes a true note in an editorial on two
Missouri lynchings: “We are in danger
of becoming a happy-go-lucky nation,
filled with a confiding trust that every-
thing will work out for the best, and
indulging in an optimism that is more of
a menace than a blessing. What we
need is something more than sublime
hope. We need leaders who will take
hold of our ^reat problems and help to
solve them, men who will study how to
supplant the mob spirit with respect for
law, who will offer practical remedies for
the grave sociological conditions that
make life a burden, who will not con-
tent themselves with merely hoping that
human ills will disappear, but will
steadily labor toward accomplishing that
end. Not optimists are wanted, but
workers."
SOUTH CAROLINA’S PROTEST.
In South Carolina the better papers
are much stirred over the peculiarly
shameless lynching at Honeapath, in
which Joshua Ashley, an assemblyman,
and a local editor, Victor B. Cheshire,
who is on Governor Blease’s staff, played
a prominent part, and the clergy of the
county have protested warmly. The
Sumter Southron quotes editorially a ser-
mon by the Rev. John F. Vines, pastor
of the First Baptist Church, apparently
in Sumter. “Dr. Vines’ remarks," says
the Southron, “were anything but general
or vague. He made local and specific
applications of his text and did not hesi-
tate to call names. Dr. Vines said among
other things that the people who mainly
compose lynching mobs talk much of de-
fending virtue but arc not themselves dis-
tinguished for virtue. Many of them,
indeed, live in a fashion to make a mock
of all virtue and some of them are not
guiltless of relations with the black race
which are directly provocative of the
crime that leads to lynchings."
The Spartanburg Journal fears an at-
tempt to indict the murderers would be
worse than useless. “It would be im-
possible to convict the lynchers, even
if Josh Ashley (the assemblyman), the
leader, would stand up before the jury
and make full confession and give the
names of all who were in the party. If
a verdict of guilty should be brought
in, a pardon would be granted as soon
as it could be written. An arrest and
trial would make heroes of the lynchers
and eminently qualify them for public
office in the opinion of many voters.
Josh Ashley is the logical successor to
Governor Blease, for he boldly and fear-
lessly executed what the governor had
suggested and advised.
“The events of the last few days in
this State," continues the Journal, “are
sufficient to indicate that the people feel
that they have license to violate the laws.
In Greenville and Union at the close
of the week there were homicides that
were savage in their nature. In this
county a twelve-year-old boy shoots and
kills his brother. From many counties
come reports of homicide and attempts
to kill. It is time for the governor and
all in authority to advise and urge the
people to obey all the laws without ex-
ception."
The Charleston Post thinks the at-
tempt to indict should be made even if,
as at Coatesville, the result is failure’
The leaders in the crime are well known
and “it is not so easy as the members
of mobs pretend to stand in the open
light of publicity as accused authors of
a crime, in the definition of the statute,
no matter how overwhelming the ap-
proval of public opinion of the neigh-
borhood may be of the act. The
lynchers, who were so bold before and
62
THE CRISIS
have been so boastful after the deed,
should be given the opportunity of show-
ing their mettle.”
The Charlotte Observer demands an
investigation and so does another just
newspaper, the Columbia State. “There
has not,” says the State, “been a lynch-
ing in South Carolina for the one crime
that has not bred a lynching for other
crimes. There has not been a lynching
in South Carolina that has not increased
the chances of every man, white and
black, to die at the hands of a man-
slayer.
“Of course the Anderson lynchers
should be prosecuted. The law may be
flouted, the law may be insulted and
trampled upon, but that is no reason for
the sworn defenders of the law, by
silence and inaction, to proclaim that the
law is dead.”
THE COLLEGE-BRED NEGRO.
“The Atlanta University Negro Con-
ference,” says the New York Tribune,
“has made its second investigation into
the activities of the college-bred Negroes
in this country. As a result of its in-
quiries it estimates that there are 5,000
Negroes who are graduates of colleges in
this country, including institutions for
the whites and the blacks. Of the latter
there are thirty-two; thirteen only, how-
ever, being institutions of importance.
The interest of the inquiry lies in what
it discloses about the occupations of the
Negro college graduates. Of those re-
plying to its communications the confer-
ence found that 53.8 per cent, were en-
gaged in teaching, 20 per cent, were in
the ministry, while 3.8 per cent, practised
law and 7 per cent, medicine.
“Thus 84 per cent, of the Negro grad-
uates, if these figures are true generally
of the 5,000, are devoting their energies
where their race needs the services of
better educated men—in teaching,
preaching, medicine and law. The race
has suffered much in the past from igno-
rant teachers, ignorant preachers and
foolish, superstitious healers. It requires
the leadership of educated Negroes, and
apparently higher education is supplying
this need.
“The statistics showing the section of
the country in which the college-bred
Negro finds his work are also instructive.
The conference found that of 103 college-
bred Negroes of Northern birth 34 per
cent, went South to work among their
own people, while of 682 graduates born
in the South all but 15 per cent, re-
mained in that section. Thus the better-
educated Negro finds his occupation
where the race most needs him to help
in its advancement. The tendency of the
day is to look upon industrial training as
the hope of the Negro race, and this is
no doubt wise, bijt the race will always
need for its leaders, teachers, preachers
and physicians more liberally educated
men. This is the justification for the
higher education of the Negro, and the ,
statistics collected by the conference
show that it is serving this end.”
The Boston Advertiser quotes the
same report and concludes: “That the
college-bred Negro prospers is apparent
from the estimate that they are to-day
in possession of $15,000,000 worth of
property. So they offer a good example.
In learned societies and in literature they
figure well, as the report shows in some
detail. In public office they are worthily
conspicuous. In charitable work they
have played a large part. In ambition to
educate their children and make them in
turn leaders of, and examples for, their
people, they are constructive elements.
The conference reports finds these sug-
gestions in the replies it has obtained
to questions of fact and of ideas:
“Equality before the law;
“Full citizenship rights and privileges;
“The right to vote;
“Unrestricted educational opportuni-
ties;
“Well-trained leadership.
“These suggestions we are told, ‘are
not to be ignored nor even treated lightly
if we hope to bring the Negroes of
America to a higher place in the scale
of social values; and that not alone for
their own sake, but for the sake of the
American people as a whole/ That is
a point which must not be missed in
viewing the broad possibilities of ulti-
mate national development.”
It is interesting to compare these care-
fully compiled figures with the state-
ment of Dr. Maury M. Stapler, a
Georgia physician writing to the Out-
look, who says that as soon as a Negro
is educated, he “treks back to Boston,”
for the North thinks that it wants the
Negro educated, whereas the South
thinks it would prefer to keep him in “a
state of nature.” The “trek” is the other
way, but sociologists of the Stapler
school do not appear to concern them-
selves with mere facts.
The Buffalo News comments on the
replies from colleges asking whether
colored men were received. “Frankly
it must be said that the consensus of
opinion seems to be that the Negro is
not desirable as a student and, of course,
the reasons for this undesirability are
many. Yale, while it says that it .has
never felt justified in refusing admission
to Negro students, frankly declares that
it has never sought to attract them.
Leland Stanford says that it has no
hostility toward Negroes, but it fails to
set forth how many of them are regis-
tered. Fordham, in this State, says that
it has never had any Negro applicants
for admission and it cannot, therefore,
OPINION
63
say what sort of reception such applica-
tions would receive. St. Vincent College,
in Pennsylvania, says that it has never
deemed it wise to accept colored stu-
dents. In many of the New England
colleges Negro students are accepted and
may be counted among the graduates,
but when you get to Missouri the line
is drawn rather sharply, and the presi-
dent of a Missouri college writes that
he has not found a student in the State
who would tolerate a Negro in the
college.”
THE “MENACE” OF EDUCATION.
The American Missionary, a Northern
publication which stands for justice to
the Negro, quotes and answers the Rev.
Dr. Leavell, of Mississippi, the gentle-
man whose conception of Christianity
leads him to agitate against Negro edu-
cation.
“Dr. Leavell,” says the Missionary,
“while a pastor in Massachusetts ably
advocated the education of the Negro
people. He now publishes a pamphlet
which says as to Negro education:
“ ‘There is a great and increasing hesi-
tation among us to go further, and amid
present conditions do that which would
inevitably tend toward equalizing the
situation between the races, make the
Negro a more efficient citizen, and ren-
der him a positive, influential, equal and
permanent factor in our political life.’
“Dr. Leavell thinks also that ‘there
has been a change in the general public
sentiment of the North,’ brought about
by the agitation of such men as Senator
Tillman of South Carolina, and ex-Gov-
ernor Vardaman of Mississippi, which
has brought Northern sentiment into
sympathy with this questioning whether
on the whole it would not be better to
keep the Negro m ignorance, lest by
education he really prove himself a man,
to demand the rights of a man.
“He adds: ‘So long as it is possible
for him (the Negro) to be a voter in the
South he will be a menace, and so long
as he is a menace “we cannot and we
will not extend to him the aid tie needs
to make him more ‘worth while’ to him-
self and to us,” and so discharge toward
him the duty which in the nature of
things the higher owes to the lower con-
ditions of human life.’ Dr. Leavell un-
doubtedly represents the popular feeling
of Mississippi.
“Let us say to this: This country will
never consent to the permanent disfran-
chisement of Negro citizens. Those who
agitate for this and those who effectuate
this through methods that they them-
selves pronounce to be immoral will
eventually find themselves as thoroughly
at war with Providence as were those
who agitated the dissolution of the
Union.”
LABOR ALLIANCES.
Recently the white union carpenters
of Key West went on strike in sympathy
with two discharged colored men. The
New York Nation, telling the story, con-
tinues: “They were restored to work,
and, says a Key West account, ‘the white
and colored laborers are on much better
terms.' This is certainly refreshing read-
ing when one recalls the bitter and costly
strikes in Georgia and elsewhere of white
men to prevent .Negro workmen on rail-
ways from rising above the humblest
positions, and if it can be taken as a
sign that labor is awakening to the fact
that it least of all can indulge in race
prejudice, it should give genuine reason
for rejoicing. The other attitude par-
ticularly to be noted here in the North
of excluding the colored man from
unions is doubly wrong from the union
point of view: it makes the Negroes
ready to act as strikebreakers, and it
makes most of their arguments as to
the brotherhood of all labor highly non-
sensical. But this is one of the issues
which Mr. Gompers finds it difficult to
wax eloquent over.”
The Boston Transcript notes another
encouraging sign: “The alliance of
Southern whites and Southern Negroes
in a labor dispute is one of the occur-
rences that help to make 1911 annus
mirabilis. The colored firemen on the
Georgia & Florida Railroad have gone
out in sympathy with the white firemen
who struck for higher wages.”
<1 Bishop Guerry, of South Carolina, at
the Missionary Council of the Episco-
pal Church, scored the church for its
neglect of the Negro. “The question is
no longer a Southern one,” said the
bishop, “but is one of national scope.
There are to-day more Negroes in New
York than there are in New Orleans
and as many in Philadelphia as in any
city outside of New Orleans. You lynch
Negroes up here the same as we do in
the South. It is a national crime. We
need you and you need us and we must
work together in doing our duty to these
people. It is the greatest blot on the
American church to-day that we have
trifled with this great missionary ques-
tion at our own doors.”
<J Some Negroes of Oklahoma meeting
in Boley, at the call of G. A. Hogan,
passed resolutions condemning the law-
less Negroes of the State. Whereupon
the Oklahoma Safeguard, a colored pa-
per, remarks: “Why did you not also
condemn the lawless whites of Okla-
homa? The Negro race is not the only
race that have lawless elements in it.
Why did you not also pass a few reso-
lutions praising the law-abiding, respect-
able and cultured class of Negroes in our
race? No, you hold your peace when it
comes to this class, and advertise only
one class. Now, John, you stop that
kind of stuff and come clean.”
The National Association for the Ad-
vancement of Colored People feels that
it has reason to rejoice at Christmas
time in the increased interest and en-
thusiasm of its membership. From every
part of the country and from all classes
and races come letters of congratulation
on the association and The Crisis.
The New York branch of the
association on. November 15 opened
headquarters at 26SJ4 West 135th
Street. The office has been placed in a
Negro neighborhood that it may be
easily accessible to those it is designed
to help. Cases of discrimination, of in-
justice to men because of their color,
are to be given immediate attention, and
a clerk will be at the office during week
days. Two telephone numbers are given
for night cases: 4660 Chelsea and 152
Columbus.
The New York branch will not en-
croach upon the work of the New York
Legal Aid Society, an association which
gives legal aid to the needy of all races,
taking up cases involving claims for
wages, damages in case of accident,
etc. Nor does it expect to deal with
questions of economic discrimination. It
purposes to stand for the rights of the
colored man within the law of the State,
to see that he secures justice in the
courts, and to aid him when his civil
rights are assailed.
The significance of Hamlet’s exclama-
tion concerning "the law’s delay’’ is
keenly appreciated by the editor of the
N. A. A. C. P. notes. Cases are a
good while in coming up in court, and it
may be difficult for our readers to re-
member them from month to month,
One case, not yet mentioned in The
Crisis, is just finished. Two white men
ran out of a restaurant without paying
their bill. The cry of “thief" was raised
and a policeman, appearing in sight, shot
at a black man who was also running
hut who had had nothing whatever to
do with the robbery. The black man
named Bell, was severely hurt, and was
taken to the hospital. It is doubtful
whether he ever regains his full strength
The association was active in at once
getting the facts before the Police De-
partment, and the officer was suspended
for three months. Such discipline, how-
ever inadequate, it may seem to the
Negro sufferer, is of immense value tc
our cause.
The New York branch has another
case of the shooting of an innocent man
by a policeman, that of William Mingo,
mentioned in the August Crisis. The
case will shortly come up again.
<1 The Wendell Phillips centenary, No-
vember 29, will be celebrated in many
cities throughout the United States. The
Boston branch plans to hold its meeting
on November 28 at the Park Street
Church, Judge Wendell Phillips Stafford,
one of the association’s warm sup-
porters, giving the principal speech. Mr.
Francis Garrison, in charge of the meet-
ing, is planning a beautiful and interest-
ing programme momento, illustrated by
new and attractive pictures of Phillips
at his home and at his work.
In Brooklyn the association will hold
a meeting at Plymouth Church Novem-
ber 29, the speakers, our tried friends,
Mr. Charles Edward Russell and the
Rev. Reverdy Ransom. Henry VVard
Beecher offered his platform to Phillips
after the latter had been mobbed at the
Broadway Tabernacle, and Mr. Russell
and Mr. Ransom will have the honor of
standing on the very platform that was
shared in by these two great anti-slavery
leaders.
q A meeting TO PROTEST AGAINST
LYNCHING was held at Ethical Culture
Hall, New York, on the evening of No-
vember 15. The extent of America’s
murderous lawlessness was shown in a
circular scattered through the seats.
Mr. Oswald Garrison Villard was in
the chair and made a strong plea for jus-
tice. Mr. W. E. B. Du Bois showed that
attacks of colored men on women are
grossly exaggerated and that punish-
ment of crime in the South is making
criminals. Dr. John L. Elliott appealed
for a fund of $1,000 to investigate lynch-
ing and the audience gave $260. The
rest will undoubtedly be raised in a week
or two. Mrs. Florence Kelley and the
Rev. Hutchins Bishop made the closing
speeches. Resolutions were adopted de-
claring that the assembly “Solemnly
record our belief that the reign of lynch
law in this country, North and South,
constitutes the worst indictment of
American democracy that can be drawn."
President Taft was criticized for his
silence and a Congressional investigation
demanded.
CHRISTMAS.
CHRISTMAS is the festival of
little children—the Holyday of
the Sons and Daughters of
God. It is the day of the little Saviors
of the World whom the Fathers so
love that they send them to the world
that the world may not perish but have
Everlasting Life.
Therefore it is meet that the Shep-
herds abiding in the Field, keeping
watch over their Flock by night—the
long and dreadful night that lowers
over the world’s darker peoples—
should search the heavens for a Star,
and should strain their weary ears for
the Voice of Angels with Good Tid-
ings of great Joy which shall be to all
people, with glory, not simply to other
worlds, but on Earth. Peace, Good Will
toward men.
And so to-day, as in other days,
above the little babies of the world
shines the Star. Three kings come
toiling heavily across the seas and
sands to the far-shot glory of
that little star. One King is black;
one King is yellow; one King is white;
all three are kings; all three seek sal-
vation in the justice, mercy and truth
which will rekindle the worn and
wicked earth. Some would dispute the
kingship. Some want one king and
two servants or at most two kings.
But three Kings and one Black? ‘Must
the Race Problem greet the cradle of
the Savior of the World? It must;
and upon the awful majesty of the
three kings must dwell equal rever-
ence and social equality.
But why should kings bow to babies
in order to save the world? And if
to babies, why to babies in mangers
and tenements and rookeries? Why
not bring this mighty embassage to the
frilled and dainty babies of Fifth
Avenue or the Plaza Hotel? For two
reasons: First, there are few babies
in these latter places, and those of lit-
tle account; and, secondly, because
Black men are not welcome there, even
though they be kings. So the homage
we pay to the low-lying Savior of the
World to be is carried to the lower
East Side and the upper West Side,
to Black Harlem and yellow China-
town, to the low, the despised, the off-
scourings, the “dagoes” and the “nig-
gers.” And there the Kings of the
Earth shall bow and open their treas-
ures and present unto the Babes three
gifts: Gold and Frankincense and
Myrrh.
And so we to-day in the mystic
rhythm of this world-old ceremony
bow before our children with the three
gifts. First, Gold! We must spend
money on our children. Children
are costly and we must pay the price.
The price to have them born well, to
have them clothed and fed and shel-
tered.
Then Frankincense, the ointment
and balm of health. Not simply food,
but the right sort of food, regularly
and properly prepared. Long and
quiet sleep from the first’darkness to
late dawn. Not simply clothes to look
pretty, but clothes to be warm, com-
fortable, easy to run and play in,
strong and not spoiled by good honest
dirt; a physician, a dentist, out-of-
door life, out of the Hell of life in
flats—all this Frankincense on the
altar of childhood.
Finally, Myrrh—the perfume and
inspiration in the nostrils of a living
human soul. Knowledge and good-
ness—discipline and home life, rever-
ence for parents, honesty, a hatred of
lying lips, a love of honest work.
All those are the gifts of kings on
the altar of childhood.
Why?
66
THE
CRISIS
I
T
X
*
•:• *❖♦>•> * * * * * * * * * ** ***** ********
WENDELL PHILLIPS
At the Age of 48
* * * * *	■;«* * ■:■	» * * *
THE CRISIS
67
*** * * ■>■ * ■!' ****** * * *****
WENDELL PHILLIPS
Born November 29, 1811
*1 Of all the strong characters in American history, Wendell Phillips is
the most profitable for study by this generation, for the reason that he
was absolutely unselfish, always conscientious, devoted his life to the
cause of oppressed humanity and sought for no reward, except to feel
within himself that he had followed the right wherever it led and without
regard to the consequences.
<3 He was endowed by nature with gifts that put within his reach the
highest offices in the nation. He refused to pursue in the slightest degree
his own interests or advancement, and gave himself and all that he had
to the rescue of the victims of the most monstrous crime in history.
He never considered whether a cause was popular; he only con-
sidered whether it was right.
In behalf of.the abolition of Negro slavery he risked his life, sacri-
ficed his friendships, gave up every chance of worldly success, subjected
himself to twenty-five years of incessant abuse and vilification, became
a social and professional outcast, and never wavered once in his service
to the great cause he had undertaken.
<3 He was one of the first Americans broad minded enough to see that
the color of a man’s skin has nothing to do with his manhood or worth
any more than it has to do with his rights-
<3 He believed that all the so-called races of men are equally the
children of God and equally brothers. He utterly repudiated the hideous
doctrine that God made some of his children to be the serfs and inferiors
of others.
CJ He was the ideal democrat. To his mind freedom was mockery
unless all were free; equality a mockery unless all were equal, and
brotherhood a mockery unless all were brothers. He dedicated his life
to that faith.
<1 Would there were a Wendell Phillips to-day! Looking upon the
present condition of a large part of our colored Americans, disfranchised,
preyed upon and denied every right, what burning indignation would
fall from his_ lips! Looking upon the perversion and ruin of so much of
the exalted aims of the Abolition cause, with what indomitable courage
he .would attack the surviving feudalism that still denies his just place
in the human family to the man that happens to have a dark skin!
<J We have overdone in our national memorials the expression of
admiration for soldiers and politicians. Here was a man that believed in
saving life, not in taking it; whose appeal was to the conscience of a
nation and not to b.rute force. The world is ruled by ideas, not by the
sword. The sublime moral idea that inspired Garrison and his friend
Phillips made the public sentiment that alone enabled Emancipation to
become an accomplished fact. A thousand monuments and memorials
testify to Italy’s veneration for Mazzini. Of Wendell Phillips, the
American Mazzini, the only monument is the record of his unequaled
influence upon history and his enduring service in the purging of the
nation from a foul sin. This year, the centenary of the beginning of
his useful life, ought not to pass without some fitting tribute to a career
so blameless and filled with such unique achievement for the cause of
man.
CHARLES EDWARD RUSSELL

68
THE CRISIS
Because to childhood we look for
the salvation of the world. To child-
hood we look for the triumph of Jus-
tice, Mercy and Truth. As the chil-
dren of this generation are trained, so
will the hope of all men in the next
generation blossom to fruition, and
the song of Angels above the Christ
Child will be heard again in this old
world:
Peace on Earth, Good Will Toward
Men.
CHRISTMAS GIFT.
THE November elections come
as a sort of Christmas gift
to black folk. First, the
Digges amendment to disfranchise
colored people has been defeated in
Maryland by a decisive majority of
20,551 votes. This is the third time
that the Democratic machine has at-
tempted to get rid of the colored vote.
Secondly, the Democratic Legislature
that neglected to amend and recon-
sider the colored regiment bill in
New York has been sent home; but
Cuvillier, the Democrat who intro-
duced the bill, has been retained in his
seat by the black voters of Harlem.
It may easily be granted that Cuvil-
lier is no ideal statesman, but is it
not significant that he was the only
man in this or former legislatures
willing to do his colored constituents’
demand? May we not respectfully
assure Governor Dix that he himself
will need the black vote soon and that
this vote “follows the regiment?”
Third, the Socialists, the only party
which openly recognizes Negro man-
hood, has been signally triumphant.
Is it not time for black voters to
carefully consider the claims of this
party? Fourth, we call the attention
of contented lovers of democratic
government in this land to the fact
that while 400,000 votes were cast for
governor in the little State of Massa-
chusetts, it took only 40,000 votes to
elect the governor of Mississippi, the
pioneer State of disfranchisement.
How long will democracy stand in
America with one white man in Mis-
sissippi casting the equivalent of ten
votes ?
Finally, there is every indication
that the election of 1912 will be a
close election. If Mr. Taft succeeds
himself after his tariff record, his
silence on lynching and his treat-
ment of colored officials, it will be
by a margin that will call for every
black vote in the North. Will he
get these votes? Maybe—perhaps.
THE SIN AGAINST THE HOLY
GHOST.
UT TE doesn’t really believe what
! he says—he wants the
same things that you want,
but you see he has to talk this way.”
“Tillman? Oh, Tillman is a good
friend of Negroes—his anti-Negro
talk is just for political effect.” And
so forth. The young man then sits
back and eyes us pleasantly. He con-
siders that what he says is explanation
and excuse. Is it not perfectly clear
that men are often “in a position”
where they must say what they do
not for a moment believe? Well, does
not this fact explain and excuse their
actions and utterances?
It does not. Such action is the one
unforgiven and unforgivable sin. It
is the sin against the Holy Ghost for
which neither the world nor the mak-
ers of the world ever forgive a human
soul, and (what is far more impor-
tant) for which in the end a man
never forgives himself.
What is this strange, lightly tossed
doctrine which young black men and
young white men are to-day so easily
handling? Done into plain English it
is this: Whenever a man considers
that it is to his advantage to deceive
the public he is at liberty to do so.
Whenever a lie serves a gentleman’s
purpose better than the truth, he may
lie. And if at any time thereafter he
is accused of deception or charged
with lying it is a good and sufficient
answer for him to allege that his in-
terests required a falsehood, or his
position in the world demanded decep-
tion, or that his bread and butter
called for a lie.
This is a counsel of destruction. It
is a doctrine of death. It will, if per-
sisted in, damn any individual and it
EDITORIAL
69
will utterly destroy any race. The
individual may escape visible punish-
ment, for life is short. But the im-
mortal race cannot escape.
The Negro race in America is to-
day being offered every inducement to
lie and deceive. It is asked to lie
about its desires and ambitions. It is
asked to lie about its own human feel-
ings. It is asked to give lying testi-
mony as to the goodness of its neigh-
bors. If it will consent to lie, there
are money, position and applause for
the chief liars and winks and promises
for the fools that follow. Yet the end
is death. The end is first bewilderment
among honest people. My God! they
say, if a people who have had twenty-
five hundred of their fellows lynched
without trial in twenty-five years; who
have seen nine-tenths of their voters
disfranchised; who cannot travel, sit
or walk without danger of public in-
sult—if such a people do not believe
in “complaint” or “agitation” and
merely are ambitious to be “useful”
to their neighbors, why should we
strive to help them? No sooner have
they reached this conclusion than some
obsequious colored gentleman explains
in lowered tones: “We are not really
satisfied, we are just lying to appease
our enemies and keep our jobs.”
What is the result ? Contempt and sus-
picion. Contempt for a people who
place their jobs above their souls, and
well-grounded suspicion that the man
who will lie under such circumstances
will lie under others.
Thus the result of the sin against
the Holy Ghost is suspicion and con-
tempt from others and lack of faith
in one’s self. What black man in
America to-day who is preaching con-
tentment to ten million slaves does
not in his heart despise himself for
doing it?
THE COST OF EDUCATION.
A FAVORITE argument in the
South is that the white peo-
ple “pay for” the education
of colored children. For instance, an
alderman in Lexington, Ky., argues
this way, in answer to a complaint
about poor colored schools:
The Negroes of Lexington hold
$774,735 worth of property, on which
the school tax is $4,415.99. The white
people pay taxes on $22,000,000, on
which the school tax is $77,000. The
colored schools cost $24,971.35.
“These,” concludes the Richmond
Times-Despatch, “are very striking
figures and dispose of the complaint
made by the Negro leaders.”
Let us see. In the first place the
alderman gracefully includes in the
“white” property all the property of
corporations and public-service com-
panies, because their stockholders are
mostly white. In addition to this, it
credits to the white taxpayer all prop-
erty rented to colored tenants. But
who pays the taxes on rented prop-
erty? To settle this point let us turn
to the criticism of the New Y’ork City
Budget Exhibit made by the Commit-
tee on Congestion of Population.
“The budget exhibit fails to show
the fact that the assessed value of
tenements and buildings used for
dwelling purposes in New York is
about $1,250,000,000, and that the
taxes on these buildings, at the aver-
age tax rate of $1.75, amount to
$21,875,000 this year. New Y'ork
is the great 'tenant’ city.
“Nor is the fact shown that these
taxes on buildings are paid by the
tenants, and that a good tenement
apartment unit of four rooms is worth
at least $1,250, and that taxes on this
at a rate of $1.75 per $100, full value,
amount to $21.S7, or more than a
month’s rent. Approximately this
amount is paid in taxes by the poorest
of the poor, the sick and consumptives,
and those families trying to exist on
from $100 to $300 less than the recog-
nized standard of living.”
What is true in New York is mere
than true in Lexington, Ky. Indeed,
throughout the South, in most cities
outside of Texas, the Negro in direct
and indirect taxation is not only pay-
ing for his own wretched schooling ac-
commodations, but is also contributing
to the schools of the rich whites and
then double-taxing himself by contri-
butions to decent colored private
schools.
JESUS
CHRIST
GEORGIA
THE convict guard laughed.
I ^ don't know,” he said,
hadn t thought of that______”
He hesitated and looked at the stn
ger curiously. In the solemn twilight
got an impression of unusual height a
soft dark eyes.
“Curious sort of acquaintance for t
Colonel he thought; then he conti
ued aloud: But that nigger there is ba
a born thief and ought to be sent up f
time 1S gractlcally> Sot ten years 1;
Here the voice of the promoter tal
ing within interrupted; he was bendi
over his figures, sitting by the Colon
s sllSh.t’ with a sharp nose.
1 he convicts,” he said, “would cc
us 596 a year and board. Well we c
that *° that it won’t ’be o^
$125 apiece. Now, ,f these fellows *
driven, they can build this line will
AW^ne ?°n-thuS- Xt "il! be inning n<
April. Freights will fall fifty per ce
Why man, you will be a millionaire
less than ten years.”
The Colonel started. He was a thi
short man, with clean-shaven face a
a certain air of breeding about the lines
of his countenance; the word millionaire
sounded well in his ears. He thought—
he thought a great deal; he almost heard
the puff of the fearfully costly automo-
bile that was coming up the road, and
he said:
‘I suppose we might as well hire
them.”
“Of course,” answered the promoter.
The voice of the tall stranger in the
corner broke in here;
“It will be. a good thing for them?”
he said, half in question.
The Colonel moved. “The guard
makes strange friends,” he thought to
himself. “What’s this man doing here,
anyway?” He looked at him, or rather,
looked at his eyes, and then somehow
felt a warming toward him. He said;
“Well, at least it can’t harm them—
they’re beyond that.”
“It will do them good, then,” said the
stranger again. The promoter shrugged
his shoulders.
“It will do us good,” he said.
But the Colonel shook his head impa-
tiently. He felt a desire to justify him-
JESUS CHRIST IN GEORGIA
71
self before those eyes, and he answered:
“Yes, it will do them good; or, at any
rate, it won’t make them any worse than
they are.”
Then he started to say something else,
but here sure enough the sound of the
automobile breathing at the gate stopped
him and they all arose.
“It is settled, then,” said the promoter.
“Yes,” said the Colonel, signing his
name and turning toward the stranger
again.
“Are you going into town?” he asked
with the Southern courtesy of white man
to white man in a country town. The
stranger said he was.
“Then come along in my machine. I
want to talk to you about this.”
They went out to the car. The stran-
ger as he went turned again to look
back at the convict. He was a tall,
powerfully built black fellow. His face
was sullen, with a low forehead, thick,
hanging lips, and bitter eyes. There was
revolt written about the mouth, and a
hangdog expression. He stood bending
over his pile of stones pounding list-
lessly.
Beside him stood a boy of twelve, yel-
low, with a hunted, crafty look. The
convict raised his eyes, and they met the
eyes of the stranger. The hammer fell
from his hands.
The stranger turned slowly toward
the automobile, and the Colonel intro-
duced him. He could not exactly catch
the foreign-sounding name, but he mum-
bled something as he presented him to
his wife and little girl, who were wait-
ing. As they whirled away he started
to talk, but the stranger had taken the
little girl into his lap, and together they
conversed in low tones all the way
home.
In some way, they did not exactly
know how, they got the impression that
the man was a teacher, and of course
he must be a foreigner. The long cloak-
like coat told this- They rode in the
twilight through the half-lighted town,
and at last drew up before the Colonel’s
mansion, with its ghostlike pillars.
The lady in the back seat was thinking
of the guests she had invited to dinner,
and wondered if she ought not to ask
this man to stay. He seemed cultured,
and she supposed he was some acquaint-
ance of the Colonel’s. It would be
rather a distinction to have him there,
with the Judge’s wife and daughter and
the Rector. She spoke almost before
she thought:
“You will enter and rest awhile?”
The Colonel and the little girl insisted.
For a moment the stranger seemed
about to refuse. He said he was on his
way North, where he had some business
for his father in Pennsylvania. Then,
for the child’s sake, he consented. Up
the steps they went, and into the dark
parlor, and there they sat and talked a
long time. It was a curious conversa-
tion. Afterward they did not remember
exactly what was said, and yet they all
remembered a certain strange satisfac-
tion in that long talk.
Presently the nurse came for the
reluctant child, and the hostess be-
thought herself:
“We will have a cup of tea—you will
be dry and tired.”
She rang and switched on a blaze of
light. With one accord they all looked
at the stranger, for they had hardly seen
him well in the glooming twilight. The
woman started in amazement and the
Colonel half rose in anger. Why, the
man was a mulatto, surely—even if he
did not own the Negro blood, their prac-
tised eyes knew it. He was tall and
straight, and the coat looked like a Jew-
ish gabardine. His hair hung in close
curls far down the sides of his face, and
his face was olive, even yellow.
A peremptory order rose to the Colo-
nel’s lips, and froze there as he caught
the stranger’s eyes. Those eyes, where
had he seen those eyes before? He re-
membered them long years ago—the
soft tear-filled eyes of a brown girl. He
remembered many things, and his face
grew drawn and white. Those eyes kept
burning into him, even when they were
turned half away toward the staircase,
where the white figure of the child hov-
ered with her nurse, and waved good-
night. The lady sank into her chair and
thought: “What will the Judge’s wife
say? How did the Colonel come to
invite this man here? How shall we be
rid of him?” She looked at the Colonel
in reproachful consternation.
Just then the door opened and the old
butler came in. He was an ancient black
man with tufted white hair, and he held
before him a large silver tray filled with
a china tea service. The stranger rose
slowly and stretched forth his hands as
if to bless the viands. The old man
paused in bewilderment, tottered and
then, with sudden gladness in his eyes,
dropped to his knees as the tray crashed
to the floor.
“My Lord!” he whispered, “and My
God!” But the woman screamed:
“Mother’s china!”
The doorbell rang.
“Heavens! Here is the dinner party!”
exclaimed the lady.
She turned toward the door, but there
in the hall, clad in her night clothes, was
the little girl. She had stolen down the
stairs to see the stranger again, and the
nurse above was calling in vain. The
woman felt hysterical and scolded at the
nurse, but the stranger had stretched out
his arms, and with a glad cry the child
nestled in them. “Of such,” he whis-
pered, “is the Kingdom of Heaven,” as
72
THE CRISIS
he slowly mounted the stairs with his
little burden.
The mother was glad; anything to be
rid of the interloper even‘for a moment.
The bell rang again, and she hastened
toward the door, which the loitering
black maid was just opening. She did not
notice the shadow of the stranger as he
came slowly down the stairs and paused
by the newel post, dark and silent.
The Judge’s wife entered. She was aiv
old woman, frilled and powdered into a
caricature of youth, and gorgeously
gowned. She came forward, smiling with
extended hands, but just as she was
opposite the stranger, a chill from some-
where seemed to strike her, and she
shuddered and cried: “What a draft!” as
she drew a silken shawl about her and
shook hands cordially; she forgot to ask
who the stranger was. The Judge strode
in unseeing, thinking of a puzzling case
of theft.
“Eh? What? Oh—er—yes—good-eve-
ning,” he said, “good-evening.”
Behind them came a young woman in
the glory of youth, daintily silked, with
diamonds around her fair neck, beautiful
in face and form, bhe came-in lightly,
but stopped with a little gasp; then she
laughed gaily and said:
“Why, I beg your pardon. Was it not
curious? I thought I saw there behind
your man”—she hesitated (“but he must
be a servant,” she argued)—“the shadow
of wide white wings. It was but the
light on the drapery. What a turn it
gave me—so glad to be here!” And she
smiled again. With her came a tall and
haughty naval officer. Hearing his lady
refer to the servant, he hardly looked at
him, but held his gilded cap and cloak
carelessly toward him; the stranger took
them and placed them carefully on the
rack.
Last came the Rector, a man of forty,
and well clothed. He started to pass the
stranger, stopped and looked at him in-
quiringly.
“I beg your pardon,” he said, “I beg
your pardon, I think I have met you?”
The stranger made no answer, and the
hostess nervously hurried the guests on.
But the Rector lingered and looked per-
plexed
“Surely I know you; I have met you
somewhere,” he said, putting his hand
vaguely to his head. “You—you remem-
ber me, do you not?”
The stranger quietly swept his cloak
aside, and to the hostess’ unspeakable
relief moved toward the door.
“I never knew you,” he said in low
tones, as he went.
The lady murmured some faint excuse
about intruders, but the Rector stood
with annoyance written on his face.
“I beg a thousand pardons,” he said
to the hostess absently. “It is a great
pleasure to be here—somehow I thought
I knew that man. I am sure I knew
him, once.”
The stranger had passed down the
steps, and as he went the nurse-maid,
lingering at the top of the staircase, flew
down after him, caught his cloak, trem-
bled, hesitated, and then kneeled in the
dust. He touched her lightly with his
hand and said, “Go, and sin no more.”
With a glad cry the maid left the house
with its open door and turned north,
running, while the stranger turned east-
ward to the night. As they parted a long
low howl rose tremulously and reverber-
ated through the town. The Colonel’s
wife within shuddered.
“The bloodhounds,” she said. The
Rector answered carelessly.
“Another one of those convicts es-
caped, I suppose; really, they need
severer measures.” Then he stopped. He
was trying to remember that stranger’s
name. The Judge’s wife looked about for
the draft and arranged her shawl. The
girl glanced at the white drapery in the
hall, but the young officer was bending
over her, and the fires of life burned in
. her veins.
Howl after howl rose in the night,
swelled and died away. The stranger
strode rapidly along the highway and out
into the deep forest. There he paused
and stood waiting, tall and still. A mile
up the road behind him a man was run-
ning, tall and powerful and black, with
crime-stained face, with convict’s stripes
upon him and shackles on his legs. He
ran and jumped in little short steps, and
the chains rang. He fell and rose again,
while the howl of the hounds rung
harder behind him.
Into the forest he leaped and crept and
jumped and ran, streaming with sweat;
seeing the tall form rise before him, he
stopped suddenly, dropped his hands in
sullen impotence and sank panting to
the earth. A bloodhound shot into
the woods behind him, howled, whined
and fawned before the stranger’s' feet.
Hound after hound bayed, leapt and lay
there; then silent, one by one, with
bowed head, they crept backward toward
the town.
The stranger made a cup of his hands
and gave the man water to drink, bathed
his hot head, and gently took the chains
and irons from his feet. By and by the
convict stood up. Day was dawning
above the treetops. He looked into the
stranger’s face, and for a moment a glad-
ness swept over the stains of his face.
“Why, you’se a nigger, too,” he said.
Then the convict seemed anxious to
justify himself.
“I never had no chance,” he said fur-
tively.
“Thou §halt not steal,” said the stran-
ger.
The man bridled.
“But how about them? Can they steal?
JESUS CHRIST IN GEORGIA
73
Didn't they steal a whole year’s work
and then, when I stole to keep from
starving——" he glanced at the stranger.
“No, I didn’t steal just to keep from
starving. I stole to be stealing. I can’t
help stealing. Seems like when I secs
things I just must—but, yes, I’ll try!”
The convict looked down at his striped
clothes, but the stranger had taken off
his long coat—and put it around him,
and the stripes disappeared. In the open-
ing morning the black man started tow-
ard the low log farmhouse in the dis-
tance, and the stranger stood watching
him. There was a new glory in the day.
The black man’s face cleared up and the
farmer was glad to get him.
All day he worked as he had never
worked before, and the farmer gave him
some cold food toward night.
“You can sleep in the barn,” he said,
and turned away.
“How much do I git a day?" asked the
man.
The farmer scowled:
“If you’ll sign a contract for the sea-
son," he said, “I’ll give you ten dollars
a month."
“I won’t sign no contract to be a
slave," said the man doggedly.
“Yes, you will," said the farmer, threat-
eningly, “or I’ll call the convict guard."
And he grinned.
The convict shrunk and slouched to the
barn. As night fell he looked out and
saw the farmer leave the place. Slowly
he crept out and sneaked toward the
house. He looked into the kitchen door.
No one was there, but the supper was
spread as if the mistress had laid it and
gone out. He ate ravenously. Then he
looked into the front room and listened.
He could hear low voices on the porch.
On the table lay a silver watch. He
gazed at it, and in a moment was beside
it, with his hand on it. Quickly he
slipped out of the house and slouched
toward the field- He saw his employer
coming along the highway. He fled back
stealthily and around to the front of the
house, when suddenly he stopped. He
felt the great dark eyes of the stranger
and saw the same dark, cloaklike coat,
where he was seated on the doorstep
talking with the mistress of the house.
Slowly, guiltily, he turned back, entered
the kitchen and laid the watch where he
had found it; and then he rushed wildly
with arms outstretched back toward the
stranger.
The woman had laid supper for her
husband, and going down from the house
had walked out toward a neighbor’s. She
was gone but a little while, and when
she came back she started to see a dark
figure on the doorsteps under the tall
red oak. She thought it was the new
Negro hand until he said in a soft voice:
“Will you give me bread?”
Reassured at the voice of a white man,
she answered quickly in her soft South-
ern tones:
“Why, certainly."
She was a little woman. Once she had
been handsome, but now her face was
drawn with work and care. She" was
nervous, and was always thinking, wish-
ing, wanting for something. She went
in and got him some cornbread and a
glass of cool, rich buttermilk, and then
came out and sat down beside him. She
began, quite unconsciously, to tell him
about herself—the things she had done,
and had not done, and the things she
had wished. She told him of her hus-
band, and this new farm they were try-
ing to buy. She said it was so hard to
get niggers to work. She said they ought
all to be in the chain gang and made to
work. Even then some ran away. Only
yesterday one had escaped.
At last she gossiped of her neighbors;
how good they were and how bad.
“And do you like them all?" asked the
stranger.
She hesitated.
“Most of them," she said; and then,
looking up into his face and putting her
hand in his as though he were her father,
she said:
“There are none I hate; no, none at
all”
He looked away and said dreamily:
“’You love your neighbor as yourself?"
She hesitated—
“I try----” she began, and then looked
the way he was looking: down under the
hill, where lay a little, half-ruined cabin.
“They are niggers," she said briefly.
He looked at her. Suddenly a confu-
sion came over her, and she insisted, she
knew not why—
“But they are niggers."
With a sudden impulse she rose, and
hurriedly lighted the lamp that stood just
within the door and held it above her
head. She saw his dark face and curly
hair. She shrieked in angry terror, and
rushed down the path; and just as she
rushed down, the black convict came run-
ning up with hands outstretched. They
met in midpath, and before he could stop
he had run against her, and she fell
heavily to earth and lay white and still.
Her husband came rushing up with cry
and oath:
“I knew it," he said: “it is that runa-
way nigger." He held the black man
struggling to the earth, and raised his
voice to a yell. Down the highway came
the convict guard with hound and mob
and gun. They poured across the fields.
The farmer motioned to them.
“He—attacked—my wife,” he gasped.
The mob snarled and worked silently.
Right to the limb of the red oak they
hoisted the struggling, writhing black
man, while others lifted the dazed
woman. Right and left as she tottered to
the house she searched for the stranger.
74
THE CRISIS
with a sick yearning, but the stranger
was gone. And she told none of her
guest.
“No—no—I want nothing,” she in-
sisted, until they left her, as they thought,
asleep. For a time she lay still listening
to the departure of the mob. Then she
rose. She shuddered as she heard the
creaking of the limb where the body
hung. But resolutely she crawled to the
window and peered out into the moon-
light; she saw the dead man writhe. He
stretched his arms out like a cross, look-
ing upward. She gasped and clung to
the window sill. Behind the swaying
body, and down where the little, half-
ruined cabin lay, a single flame flashed
up amid the far-off shout and cry of the
mob. A fierce joy sobbed up through
the terror in her soul and then sank
abashed as she watched the flame rise.
Suddenly whirling into one great crim-
son column it shot to the top of the sky
and threw great arms athwart the
gloom until above the world and behind
the roped and swaying form below hung
quivering and burning a great crimson
cross.
She hid her dizzy, aching head in an
agony of tears, anu dared not look, for
she knew. Her dry lips moved:
“Despised and rejected of men.”
She knew, and the very horror of it
lifted her dull and shrinking eyelids.
There, heaven-tall, earth-wide, hung the
stranger on the crimson cross, riven and
bloodstained with thorn-crowned head
and pierced hands. She stretched her
arms and shrieked.
He did not hear. He did not see. His
calm dark eyes all sorrowful were fast-
ened on the writhing, twisting body of
the thief, and a voice came out of the
winds of the night, saying:
“This day thou shalt be with me in
Paradise!”
THE STORY OF A "DESPERADO"
Newspaper headlines can easily make
•a thing seem what it is not. This evil
power is almost universally used in the
American press against the interests of
the Negro race.
We all saw a few days ago how one
Negro in Northport, Ala., had killed
two “deputy sheriffs,” and we all, even
the blackest of us, had our minds filled
with the idea of some Negro criminal
being run down by officers of the law and
making a desperate and murderous re-
sistance. For instance, “Negro Des-
perado Kills Two Deputy Sheriffs in
Fight Near Tuscaloosa—Strong Posse
Has Black Surrounded in Swamp and His
Death Is Momentarily Expected—Excite-
ment Is High.” And the dispatch sent
from Birmingham read: “Chased by a
posse, Frank Harrison, a Negro mur-
derer. is hiding in the hills of Tuscaloosa
County. On Sunday he killed Deputy
Sheriff Cooper at Northport, Ala., and to-
day killed Deputy Sheriff Horton and a
Negro. In the fight Deputy Sheriff
Hamby and another Negro were
wounded.
“It is feared the Negro will be lynched
if caught. Dogs are on the murderer’s
trail.”
Even the best of us, those of us who
sympathize with the disadvantage un-
der which the Negro so often struggles,
in this particular case shrugged our
shoulders and said, “How bad of the
Negro; how foolish to make such a
bloodthirsty criminal mark for himself.”
And then perhaps we whispered to our
thoughts: “l should not be surprised if
the white people, ‘the best citizens/ of
that neighborhood would try to lynch
that Negro.” And that is the way in
which the newspaper has imposed upon
the thoughts of law-abiding white and
black people all over this country, in
this instance, and in a thousand and ten
thousand other instances; for behold
here the truth:
In the first place, and to rob the news-
paper headline of its chief sting, neither
of the men killed zvcrc '‘deputy sheriffs”
And you who read the first and only ac-
counts in the Associated Press read the
following plain statement of the actual
facts and see what a different impression
will be made on you:
A white man, of Northport, Ala., who
had once upon a time been a deputy
sheriff, went to the home of a Negro
named Richardson to borrow that Ne-
gro’s saddle. The Negro, standing in
his own door, said to the white man,
who was standing outside of the Negro's
gate: “Mr. Cooper, I would be glad to
lend you my saddle to-day, but I’m go-
ing to use it myself—I’m going to ride
to church.”
Then the white man, perhaps crazed
by liquor or drug but more likely by the
hardly less dangerous consciousness of
his race, replied with heat and in the
presence of the Negro’s family: “D—n
you, nigger! Every time I ask you for
a favor, you’ve got some excuse. You
blank-blank-blankety-blank, you! I’ll
have that saddle or kill vou.”
The Negro replied: “If I came to your
• house and spoke that way in the pres-
ence of your family, you all would try to
mob me.”
HISTORIC DAYS IN DECEMBER
75
Whereupon the white man, apparently
infuriated by this recital of a very evi-
dent truth, entered the Negro’s gate and
made straight for him. The Negro
stepped back, reached for his Win-
chester and the white man was slain.
And what did the Negro do then?
Exactly what every Negro in certain
States of the Union would have imme-
diately thought of doing, and what I
suspect the majority of them would
actually have done; he decided that self-
defense would be no plea for him, and
he immediately became a fugitive from
justice, or (according to his viewpoint)
from injustice.
Why?
Well, let us look the truth full in the
face once, if it kills, and I half suspect
that it will not kill us. He had heard of
a hundred cases jn which colored men
had been murdered by either legal or
illegal process for a plain homicide in
self-defense. Nay, more, he had heard a
thousand times that Negroes had lost
their lives or their liberty for acts much
less grave than the one he committed.
I am told by those who know that as
he fled, the best white people of North-
port did not go in pursuit of him—
perhaps they thought that the least em-
barrassing way out of the whole thing
would be to let the Negro run off if
he could. Of those who pursued him
(and with what intention both you and
I, as well as he, would have been of
the same opinion) he slew one, who
constitutes *the second "deputy” of the
newspaper headline.
What about this second killing? Well,
in the eyes of the law I suppose it was
murder, but in the light of that fellow’s
situation, taking absolutely everything
into consideratioh just ae we all know
it, and in the more awful light of your
own instinct of self-preservation, what
do you call it? Was there anything in
the history of the courts of his own
community to give him even the slight-
est hope of justice? Was there any-
thing in the last thirty days through
which he had lived, during which time a
black man was shot or burned EVERY
OTHER DAY—was there one thing in
this terrible history to lead him to fall
with confidence and complacency into
the hands of a lot of pursuing "citizens,”
even if they had been the "best?”
It was another Negro who finally dis-
armed and delivered this Negro into the
hands of officers. And yet the Negro
is accused of hiding the criminals of his
race. The Negro is guilty of as little
concealment of this type of criminals as
any other people would be—if not less
—if in their situation. But unless the
Negro is made a party to our conven-
tions called laws, he will feel more
and more that he has nothing to do with
them and is not justly bound by them,
and the number of those who will be
willing to deliver up offenders, especially
of the color-line type, will become
steadily and proportionately less.
Wm. Pickens, Talladega College.
HISTORIC DAYS IN DECEMBER
1.	Connecticut makes man stealing a
capital offense, 1642.
2.	John Brown is executed at Charles-
town, Virginia (now West Virginia),
1859.
4.	South Carolina adopts revised con-
stitution, whose main purpose is to ex-
clude Negroes from the suffrage, 1895.
5.	Frederick Douglass' freedom is pur-
chased, 1846.
6.	Columbus discovers the island of
Hayti, 1496.
8.	President Lincoln proposes a plan
of reconstruction in his message to Con-
gress, 1863.
10.	National Colored Labor Conven-
tion meets in the District of Columbia,
1869.	_ . f 0	~
12. Joseph H. Rainey, of South Caro-
lina, takes his seat as the first Negro
member of Congress, 1870.
14. Proposal in Congress to revive
African slave trade, 1856.	.
15 Colored Methodist Episcopal
Church consisting of what had * been
the Negro membership of the Methodist
Episcopal Church (South) is organized,
1S70.
17.	John G. Whittier, the poet of free-
dom, befrn, 1S07.
IS.	Thaddeus Stevens opens debate in
Congress on Reconstruction, 1865.
22.	Charles Lenox Remond, Negro
anti-slavery worker, dies, 1873.
23.	Jefferson Davis, President of the
Confederacy, issues proclamation outlaw-
ing officers of Negro troops, 1S62.
26.	The Georgia Legislature passes an
act offering a reward of $5,000 for the
arrest and delivery within that State of
William Lloyd Garrison, 1831.
27.	Hinton R. Helper, author of "The
Impending Crisis,” born, 1829.
28.	American Colonization Society
founded, 1S17.
29.	The Pennsylvania Anti-Slavery
Society petitions Congress for the aboli-
tion of slavery, 1790.
•	L. M. Hers haw.
E_ BURDE
MttM
COLORED	MEN	LYNCHED	WITH-
	OUT	TRIAL.	
1885		. 78	1898		.... 102
1SS6		. 71	1899		. .. .	84
1887		. 80	1900		.... 107
1888		. 95	1901		.... 107
18S9		. 95	1902..	86
1890		. 90	1903		.... 86
1891		. 121	1904			 83
1892		. 155	1905			 61
1893		. 154	1906			 64
1S94		. 134	1907			 60
1895		. . 112	190S			 93
1896		. . SO	1909....		 73
1897		.. 122	1910....		 65
		Total..	....2,458
<3 The following incident comes from
Oklahoma: “On Tuesday an old colored
lady was standing on Broadway and a
nicely dressed little white girl attempted
to cross the street-car track in front of
a moving car, not seeing the car, which
meant death. The old colored lady
grabbed the child and held it back,
thereby saving its life. The child looked
up into her face, saw who it was, and
jerked away, exclaiming, ‘Don’t put your
hands on me, you old nigger.’
“A little later a little colored girl was
crossing the track on Court Street in
front of a moving car, not seeing the car,
and would doubtless have been killed,
but a white gentleman who was near
caught the child and saved her life. Look-
ing around and seeing who it was, she
cried out, ‘White man, don’t put your
hands on me.’ ”
Cj In Denver, Colorado, Dr. W. H. P.
Westbrook, a colored physician, applied
for membership in the Chamber of Com-
merce. The committee on membership,
after some hesitation, accepted the ap-
plication. When the matter came before
the organization the white Southerners
threatened to withdraw, and Dr. West-
brook withdrew his application.
In a machine shop in Muskogee,
Okla., there was a race riot, precipitated
by some trouble between a black man
and a white man. The white man en-
tered the shop by the wrong door and
a Negro sent him to the right one (he
said by the direction of the foreman);
who was to blame for the ensuing trou-
ble does not appear, but anyway a letter
appeared in a daily paper of that city,
signed by the white shop committee, and
we quote a few specimen phrases:
“In reference to the race riot at Mid-
land Valley shops, I would like to in-
form you and the public that there are
no Negro machinists in the United States
of America or Canada. We consider it
a gross insult to be classed with a Negro;
therefore, we want the public to know
that there were no Negro machinists
in the union. .	.	. The men in a body
refused to resume their work with the
Negroes as helpers, and therefore they
were discharged.”
The incident is interesting, in that it
shows the systematic attempts of a cer-
tain type of man to spread falsehoods
about the Negro. There are, of course,
Negro machinists in the United States,
but ignorant workingmen in Oklahoma
must be kept from the knowledge, that
black men may be more easily pushed
into purely menial positions.
<3 In Frankfort, Ky., an old colored
man, a stranger, was struck by a rail-
way train and severely injured. An
ambulance was called but the white hos-
pitals would not take him. He was
carried to an undertaker’s shop, but the
proprietor had no room and no experi-
ence with persons who were merely
dying. After several other adventures
the injured man was carried to the work-
house, and as it was crowded within
doors, a wagon was wheeled out of a
shed and he was put in its place. After
a few hours of the shed the old man
solved the difficulty by dying.
NATIVITY
By Mary ^Vhitc Ovington
Unto the pure of heart it matters not
Though they be born to great estate
or small.
Within a palace stood Lord Buddha’s cot
While JesuS suckled in ah ox’s stall.
Du Bois, W. E. B.—“The Quest of the
Silver Fleece.'’ McClurg & Co.,
Chicago.
In reading Dr. Du Bois’ novel you real-
ize for the first time the vital note which
the art of American fiction has lacked.
In the absorbing and compelling hold
that it takes upon your imagination and
sympathies, you are convinced of what
American fiction has gained in this story.
Behind every big novel is some great
force of nature; this struggles through
the human experience and becomes the
law by which the moral and ethical fate
of man works out the drama of the soul.
It is subtle and strange and mysterious,
and levels all mankind into a fraternity
of those virtues and vices, those hopes
and aspirations, those joys and sorrows,
making a common brotherhood of all the
races of men that live the intricate but
infinite distance between nature and God.
To Frank Norris’ commercial epic of
wheat and James Lane Allen's theolog-
ical epic of hemp Dr. Du Bois now adds
the spiritual epic of cotton. It becomes
the woven texture in the hands of this
poet, through which runs the pattern of
a great problem, harmonized in its sub-
tler details of human motives. The sig-
nificance of these human figures, in the
grip of this great force of nature, lies
deeper than the difference between their
circumstances of life; it is in that sub-
liiner consciousness of the soul which
finds its law in nature and in God, and
finds its aspirations and its hopes crushed
through the interpretation of those laws
when applied by man’s unjust and nar-
row conception of them. But you can
never get away from the fact, prophetic
as it is, and overwhelming in its pro-
found simplicity, that nature renders vis-
ible—is a sort of material symbol of
God’s invisible and impartial justice; that
of neither race nor creed do either take
any recognizance in leading the strug-
gling human soul to a realization of the
light it sees. Black folk and white folk
under the tremendous influence of a force
deeper than any recognition of dominant
and inferior races, voyage as it were, in
the ship of their souls over life’s troubled
waters, in the ‘‘Quest of the Silver
Fleece.”
In writing the story of Zora and Bles
Alwyn Dr. Du Bois has created two
characters, and brought them through the
ramifications of the Great Problem to a
nnal triumph with unerring balance of
motives, and with all the felicitous,
poetic, unweaving of purpose. In and
out like tangled threads run the lives of
those whom the perplexing conditions of
the South cannot separate, who share a
common fate in their own individual ex-
periences. It is an immense background
that stretches into infinite reaches of soul
and conscience, across which the actions
of these lives pass. Tragedy, pity, sym-
pathy, the great sullen and inexplicable
deepness and the vast silence therein that
smothers reason and makes inarticulate
the surging inclinations, beat like a great
rhythm in these men and women as they
voyage on this quest of the fleece. The
environment of an Alabama county, with
all its picturesque details of swamp, plan-
tation and village, in which the sordid
conditions of an unhappy people and
their masters blotch the countenance of
the earth; and later the urban, com-
plexed. intriguing and feverish antago-
nisms of the nation’s capital, furnish the
scenes in which these two dark children
of men rise above themselves to man-
hood and womanhood. There is no more
subtler portraiture of womanhood than
that apparition that rose out of the
swamp, a child of nature and dreams,
who made her soul an altar of sacrifice
and a messenger of life.
Her character is wrought upon the
anvil of suspicion. It is placed there a
molten mass of dreams and mysterious
desires, which the hammers of Southern
carnality, her lover’s desertion and the
redemptive hopes for her helpless people
beat mercilessly, but joyously, into the
final triumphant shape of noble woman-
hood. She is primal in her instincts,
which is her truthfulness to nature—to
type—if you will. But so was Jane Eyre,
too, and Becky Sharp: and to make her
more real, more vitally human, you find
Dr. Du Bois holding her off. as Thack-
eray holds Becky, and emphasizing those
conventional traits—her little falsehoods
and thefts—so you may the more readily
see the fineness of her character in what
she overcame and accomplished. But,
after all, when you have arrived without
prejudice at the psychology of her un-
truthfulness and thefts, and drew the
comparative consequences that followed
Mary Taylor’s betrayal of her ideals and
conscience, you also arrive at that pro-
78
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
found universality of human nature that
lies at the bottom of all mankind. And
it is the poetic vision, the touchstone of
that eternal rhythm, which Dr. Du Bois
reveals, penetrating and laying bare the
likeness in the unlikeness of these two
peoples who are submitting in this re-
markable story their passions and their
prejudices, their hatreds and common in-
terests for settlement before the arbitra-
tion of the great natural tribunal of
cotton.
I wish to lay stress on this because, for
the first time, in this novel, the great
problem has been handled with such
sheer visional grasp of life purpose and
not race purpose. Take any one of the
important characters—Miss Smith, head
of the Negro school; Colonel Cresswell,
Harry Cresswell, his son, the aristocratic
planters; Mary Taylor and John Taylor,
her brother and manipulator of the cot-
ton corner; Senator Smith, Maxwell, Mrs.
Vanderpool, Blcs Alwyn and Carrie
Wynn, the colored Washington school
teacher—and you will discover that,
however it may seem to be the tre-
mendous racial stake that draws their
lives into sharp and agonizing conflict
and contrast, it is really the deeper,
more passionate battle of individual life.
The incidents and actions through which
these characters progress to the climax
of their strivings—the cotton-growers’
problems of labor and prices, the mar-
ket manipulations of Northern capitalists,
the political machinery of a presidential
campaign, the machinery of the colored
school system at Washington, and the
growing complexity of social life among
the colored people—however diversified,
however contrasting in revealing traits
and temperaments, it is the arrival
at some final distinction in all these
figures of a deeply human sense
of man’s existence. If you carry
away from a novel this impression
of human nature, of a fine distinction of
character breaking through this human
nature, you are richer by a revelation of
life that has been the artist’s sole purpose
in weaving his imagination around those
unseen realities that beat from that eter-
nal rhythm of existence, and which
counts not for a day, but for all times.
Something more important than immi-
gration supplies the melting pot of the
future American; it is vision, that boils
truth into some visible and pulsing
shape; and it is this spiritual element
which will add completeness to that fig-
ure now simmering in the development
of the American nation. The great and
conflicting forces of these two peoples
in the South does not become a text in
Dr. Du Bois* novel, for justice, equality,
charity, nor mutual co-operation; it is
the vision of truth glowingly presented
in all its evading and changing aspects
which alone, making art, and especially
the illusion of fictional art, reveals how
inevitable these things must be, if hu-
manity would not destroy what is most
precious and vital in its progress. Be-
cause something so large, so elemental,
so sweeping in its poetic conviction, un-
derlies the disengaging vision of a great
human oneness, “The Quest of the Silver
Fleece” stands above all other novels
that shape this theme.
William Stanley Braithwaite.
Bom. 2220
Gen. 6322
Van Noy Printing Go.
100 Linen Finish Cards by Mall,
60c.
COMMERCIAL PRINTING
SOCIETY PRINTING
BOOK AND JOB PRINTING
2316 MARKET ST. ST. LOUIS, MO.
JOINING THE NAVY; OR,
ABROAD WITH UNCLE SAM
By JOHN H. PAYNTEB, A.M.
First Race Contribution to Navy
Literature
Ordered by the Government for Libraries of
War Vessels
"It is a perfect picture of life on board
ship when I first went to sea. The story is
told bo simply and in such good style, and
holds its interest so. that I read it through
at one sitting."—Richardson Olover, Rear
Admiral, U. 8. N., Retired.
Cloth Bound. 300 Pagoo. Fully Illustrated.
SECOND EDITION
of One Dollar
Sent
Postage Paid on Rooelpt
Address care of
8UDWARTH PRINTING
WASHINGTON, D. O.
OO.
Xma§ Pictures Free
Send us 15 cents to pay postage and paoklng. We will
enclose our unique soiling plan, whereby you may make
money selling beautiful pictures of Nogro subjects, suit-
able for Interior decoration. Pictures 16x20. “Jesus
Died for Both “ “Clinging to the Cross.” “Beacon
Light." "Booker T. Washington.” “Protecting Angel.'*
“Heavenward.” "Onward." “Jack Johnson." “The
Colored Troop Charging up San Juan H1U." "Moses."
“The Llttlo Shephord." Price, postpaid. 25 cents.
15 Beautiful Art Postcards, 10 Cents
Christmas. New Year’s and other holiday cards.
AGENTS WANTED
Our agents are coining money on those pictures and
postcards. One agent mado $15 in ono day.
JACOB GRIFFITH
252 WEST 53d STREET	NEW YORK
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS
ADVERTISER
79
If you aro honest, ambitious and determined to suc-
ceed in business—a business absolutely your own—we
can help you. Wo will teach you by mail the secrets o
Real Estato, Brokerage and Insurance business, list pro-
perties and propositions with and for you to nandlo so
you can make money from the very start.
We Teach Yon All the Secrets
ol Real Estate, Brokerage
and Insurance Business
We Instruct You In
Salesmanship.
Advertising.	I
Office System.	■
Real Estate Titles.	<
Conveyancing.	;
How to	List Properties.	f
How to	Judge Values.	j
How to	Option Properties.	!
How to	Find Prospective Customers.	;
How to	Close Deals.	\
How to	Secure Loans.	[
How to	Get Insurance Business.	!
How to Organize and Finance Corporations. In fact,
all tne essential secrets known to and practiced by the
successful broker and promoter.
We also give you a thorough Commercial Law Course.
enabling you to meet for yourself and overcome difficulties
that may arise. In short, westartyouontheroadtoruccejj.
Success and Independence
Mr. Gates says: “I started into this business without
capital and have built up one of the most successful
agencies in Vermont.” Mr. Dunbar of Kansas says: “I
have cleared up for myself during the year (h:s first
year) over $9,000.” Mr. Reynaud of Texas says: ‘T have
done remarkably well for a beginner, having made over
$6,500 in commissions since I started, nine months ago.”
Our 04-paga book, sent free, tells you koto to
start—a postal card urill bring it—write today.	5
INTERNATIONAL REALTY CORP.,
719 Manhattan Bids** Chicago, 111.	^
$65.00
A value unequaled. Sold on
Si.00 Profit Margin. Write
for prices and other styles.
Send for catalog.
C. R. Patterson & Sons
GREENFIELD, OHIO
Largest S'egro carriage concern in the United States
READ THE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS ON
PAGES 8 2 AND 83.
A limited number of
free beds maintained
for the worthy poor.
Other ward patients
maintained at $7.00
per week.
Private rooms can
be secured from
$12.00 to $30.00 per
week.
The training school
for nurses maintains
a two years’ coarse.
A high school cer-
tificate, or an edu-
cation sufficient to
he considered an
equivalent, necessary
for admission.
Five thousand dol-
lars endows a free
bed.
Andrew F. Stavwia,
President.
Nathan F. MmmII. U.D.
Medical Director and
Superintendent.
Frederick Douglass Memorial Hospital and Training School, Philadelphia, Pa.
Mention Tax Cxitis.
80
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
extends a cordial greeting to the ministers of all denominations
to be the guests of the School for one week, beginning July
6, 1912, for the purpose of discussing the following and
kindred questions:
What is the moral condition of the people in your community?
Is crime on the increase? If not, what was the cause of its
National Religious Training
School and Chautauqua
What is the sanitary condition? What effort, if any, has
reduction?
The
been made to improve the sanitary condition?
Is the death rate increasing?
To what extent do you co-operate with the Civic Improvement
Leagues?
Has settlement work been conducted to any extent in your
community, and with what results?
What has been the effect of Temperance Organizations, and
have you co-operated with them?
To what extent has the work of the Y. M. C. A. and
Y. W. C. A. been effective in your community? Do
you approve them?
What is the general fitness of the city and country school
teacher?
What has been the attitude of the day-school teacher toward
the Church and Sunday School?
What is the real religious condition of your people? Revivals,
how conducted?
All ministers who intend attending this Conference should
make it known at an early date, addressing the President, so
that reservation can be made for them.
The Summer School and Chautauqua of the National
Religious Training School will open July 3, 1912, and
continue for six weeks. The most complete and most up-to-
date Summer School for the Colored Race in the United
States. For particulars and terms address
President JAMES E. SHEPARD
DURHAM. N. C.
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS
ADVERTISER
81
O. Augustus Wright
Attorney-in-Fact
P.	O. Box 121	Bedford City, Va.
Practices before the Department of the
Interior, and the several bureaus thereof
at Washington, D. C. Prosecutes
claims for pension, increase of pen-
sion and bounty land.
Searches made of U. S. Patent Office
records; assignments of patents pre-
pared and filed. Trademarks and copy-
rights procured.
Correspondence solicited.
Approved: Bureau of Pensions, J. P.
9-26-11.
Beautilul Art Exhibit
During the holidays Miss Cora Van Schoick
will have a sale and exhibit of unusual interest
at the
CLIO SCHOOL
487 SIXTH AVENUE
Bet. 29th and 30th Sts. New York City
There will be for sale hand-painted china and
pillow tops: handmade opera bags, pin-cushions
and novelties.
The exhibit will be brimful of Christmas-gift
suggestions, as you will find original hand crea-
tions that appeal to milady’s every mood and
fancy.
Telephone 3253 Harlem	CARPET CLEANING
CLEANERS AND RENOVATERS FOR PARTICULAR PEOPLE
NEW YORK CAREFUL CLEANING BUREAU
12 WEST 135TH STREET
We make a specialty of cleaning and renovating carpets, rugs, portieres and upholstered
furniture, we also vacuum clean in the home. We are not the largest carpet cleaner in the
world, but absolutely the most careful in every detail.
SHAMPOOING CARPETS AND RUGS OUR SPECIALTY
ESTABLISHED 1887	’Phone 4715 Mad. Sq.
L. A. de TOSCANO CO.
OLDEST COLORED REGALIA ESTABLISHMENT IN THE CITY
Knights of Pythias	BADGES	Paraphernalia
Knights Templars And Patriarchs	JEWELS	and Supplies for All Societies
Equipments	REGALIA	Estimates Given
Mme. B. E. de Toscano, Manager
146 WEST 31s* STREET	Bet. Sixth and Seventh Avenue.	NEW YORK CITY
LEGAL DIRECTORY
J. DOUGLAS WETMORE
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Real Estate and Probate Matters a Specialty
ROBERT B. BARCUS
5 Beekman Street (Temple Court)
New York City
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Notary Public
Tel. 6222 Cortlandt
Cable Address, Judowet
Office: Room 502, Eberly Block Columbus, O.
FREDERICK L. McGHEE
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Union Block, Fourth and Cedar Streets
St. Paul, Minn.
B.	S. SMITH
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law.
Offices: Suite 610, Sykes Block
Minneapolis, Minn.
General Practice	Notarf Public
WILLIAM R. MORRIS
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
1020 Metropolitan Life Building
Minneapolis. Minn.
GEORGE W. MITCHELL
Attorney-at-Law
908 Walnut Street
Philadelphia, Pa.
Mention The Crisis.
82
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Q Through our Classified Advertising Service you have the opportunity
to tell your little wants to 40,000 SELECT readers.
Q If you want HELP, you can find, among The CRISIS readers,
graduates of Industrial Schools and thousands of young people who are
trained for efficient, dependable service.
q If you want a POSITION, The Crisis can help you find high-
class places for teachers, managers, clerks, stenographers, hotel men, etc., etc.
Q You will find our readers very responsive to this department for
Business Opportunities, Investments, Correspondence Schools, Agents
Wanted, etc.
<J Advertisers may have replies sent in care of The CRISIS and forwarded.
*3 Classified advertising rates made known on application.
REAL ESTATE
Valuable Texas Lands
For Sale
Large tracts of farm land in the best local-
ities of the State for sale at very flattering
prices. 8mall tracts for good lands suitable for
farming, truck, fruits and any domestic product.
We have for sale a number of large farms al-
ready in cultivation, good houses and barns,
wells, and nice pasture lands, which can be
obtained at reasonable rates. City property a
specialty. Business lots in the best part of
the city, Improved and unimproved. Large lots
suitable for factory property with switch
facilities.
No investment can be more valuable than an
investment in Texas real estate. Lands are be-
coming so valuable that they are doubling
themselves in value in less than a year’s time.
For any investment in Texas property, write
T. B. Madison Real Estate Company, 2415 Elm
Street, Dallas, Texas.
To Colored People
FOR SALE—We have houses from $1,000 to
$30,000. Our city is the capital of Ohio
and a great manufacturing center—plenty of
work, a good place to locate for business. Can
sell you a house for $50, $100 to $500 down,
balance like rent. For investment and specu-
lating houses or business places, $1,000 to
$5,000 down, balance on long time payment.
Farm land prices from $1,000 to $10,000 up.
Any of these are in good locations. Write for
further information.
THIS 18 A COLORED ENTERPRISE.
EDWARD A. SHANKLIN
Real Estate
1218V^ Mt. Vernon Ave.
Come to Oklahoma
TAFT, OKLAHOMA, is the fast-
est-growing colored town in the United
States. Already a flourishing, prosper-
ous community with bank, industrial col-
lege and State school for colored race,
cotton gin, brick yard, churches, numer-
ous stores and other enterprises, all con-
trolled by thriving colored citizens.
Surrounded by the most fertile farming
land in Oklahoma. Directly in the path
of the fortune-making oil developments
in Oklahoma. Splendid openings for
home seekers, business men, mechanics
and others. Invest your money in Taft
now. It will make you handsome
returns.
Beautifully located lots, $25 to $30
each. Five dollars cash, small monthly
payments without interest or taxes.
Perfect titles positively guaranteed.
Write to-day for handsome illustrated
I map, booklet and lithograph.
REEVES REALTY CO.
iambus, Ohio I Flynn-Ames Bldg., Muskogee. Okie.
ir__ 'rr,Tin
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
83
REAL ESTATE
An investment in New York City and its
suburban Real Estate offers the surest road to
success and wealth. Lota, farm lands and houses
for sale. Out-of-town correspondence invited.
S. AUGUSTUS DUNCAN
REAL ESTATE AND INSURANCE BROKER
2229 Fifth Avenue	New York
160 ACRES OF LAND FREE
Under the U. S. Homestead Act, 160 acres of land
may bo acquired free of charge. except small fee for
filing application and recording patent, by any person
of age, married or single (If married, the head of the
family is entitled), who Is not the owner of any
land. Land located In 21 States. Some very rich
and productive. Choice of location. Send SI.00 for
a copy of the Free Homestead Act. Address
0. A. WRIGHT, Box 121, Bedford City, Virginia
MUSIC
HELEN ELISE SMITH
CONCERT PIANIST
Post-Graduate of the Institute of Musical Art
Pupil of Sigiamund Stojowski
Teacher of Plano, Theory, Ear-training, etc.
224 EAST 86TH STREET, NEW YORK CITY
MISS EDITH W. McKENNY
Concert Pianist
310 W. 119th Street	Now York City
Piano lessons given privately or in classes
at reasonable rates.
Music furnished for private parties.
SCHOOLS
YOUNG MAN, HAVE YOU A TRADE?
By our method we teach the Barber Trade in
six weeks.
We give you a complete set of tools and
secure you a position in a shop. Call or writs
for particulars.
NEW YORK BARBER SCHOOL
Costello A Wise
Cor. Bowery and Rlvlngton St. NEW YORK
FURRIER
Seventeen Years’ Experience
WORK TURNED OUT PROMPTLY
MRS. G. B. NEEDLES
Late with Broadway houses
PRACTICAL FURRIER
All kinds of furs remodelled, repaired and re-
lined. White furs cleaned, equal to new. Coats
guaranteed to fit. Prices reasonable.
24 WEST 135TH STREET	NEW YORK
CRISIS AGENT
THE CRISIS
CHARLES D. LEVY, Agent
4218 Clara Street New Orleans, La.
HELP WANTED
LOCAL REPRESENTATIVES for THE CRI8I8
wanted in each locality.
Some agents sell over 800 copies monthly.
Write for particulars.
Address:
FRANK M. TURNER
CIRCULATION MANAGER
Suite 311
20 Vesey Street, New York
RELIABLE HELP at all times for the most
discriminating employers.
Out-of-town correspondence invited.
References thoroughly investigated
Address:
MISS I. L. MOORMAN
463 Lenox Avenue	New York
liVur widta’L of } HELP °r POSITION?
If so, ’phone, call or write the
MIDDLESEX EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
2229 Fifth Ave., near 136th St.
OHAS. A. KNOWLES, Mgr.
References Carefully Investigated
’Phone 6370 Harlem
STUDENT NURSES WANTED
A limited number of vacancies for pupil nurses
at the Frederick Douglass Memorial Hospital,
Lombard and 16th Streets, Philadelphia, Pa.
Requirements for Admission
HIGH-SCHOOL CERTIFICATE or an educa
tion sufficient to be considered an equivalent.
Course—2 years, 3 months.
Applicants for admission will address
MISS E. M. BROWNE, Supt. of Nurses
TYPEWRITERS
Remingtons. Densmores, Jew-
etts, $11.50 each; Franklins.
Postals. Hammonds. $9 each.
Bargains In Underwoods.
Smiths and all others. All
guaranteed. Supplies.
Standard Typewriter
Exchange
23B Park Row. New York
JEWELRY
A BEAUTIFUL (PI AA
Gold-Filled Ring %pX*Uv/
Suitable as a present or Christmas gift.
Write for particulars.
DODSON COMPANY
Importing Jewelers
127 W. VINE ST.,	KNOXVILLE, TENN.
A RACE ENTERPRISE
Manufacturing Badges, Banners and
Supplies for all Fraternal and Church
Societies. Catalogue upon request.
CENTRAL REGALIA CO.
Jos. L. Jones, Pres.
N.	E. Cor. 8th and Plum Streets
Cincinnati, Ohio
Mention Thk Crisis.
84
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
WHERE TO STOP
Our readers are urged to use these hotels and stopping places.
They are modern in every sense, and the traveling public is assured
comfort and efficient service.
For detailed information concerning resorts and hotels write
The Trave 1 Editor of The Crisis, 20 Vesey St., New York
NEW YORK CITY
Marshall's ijotrl
127-129 West 53d Street
NEW YOBK OITT
home comforts plus the
COMFORT—Large, airy rooms, offering genuine
conveniences and privileges of a modern hotel.
SERVICE—In the hotel and dining room the “Marshall” service is an excep-
tional feature, which assures comfort and pleasure for our patrons.	.
Restaurant open all night.	Cuisine to satisfy the most discrimina g
VOCAL AND INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC EVERY EVENING
Breakfast, 7:30 to 12:30, 30c. Luncheon, 12:30 to 3, 30c. Dinner, 6 to 8, c-
Special Course Dinner Every Sunday and Holidays, 50c.
telephones 4693 - 4694 Columbus	J. L. MARSHALL, Proprietor
’Phone Chelsea 2957
THE TEN EYCK HOUSE
2S2 WEST 20TH STREET
Between 7th and 8th Avenues NEW YORK
Neatly Furnished Rooms (or Permanent
or Transient Quests by Day or Week
MRS. THOMAS I*. TEN EYCK, Proprietress
“A quiet place for quiet people to dine”
“THE BRADFORD”
7S WEST 1S4TH STREET
Between Filth and Lenox Avenues NEW YORK
Ousters. Chops, Steaks, Rarebits, Salads, Club
Sandwiches, Etc. Regular Dinner, 25c., from
2 m. to 9 p. m. Meals Served at All Hours.
PnTste Dining Room. Furnished Rooms To
Let. Permanent or Transient.
JOHN E. BRADFORD, Proprietor
HARLEM PRIVATE HOUSE
Furnished rooms to let lor gentlemen only.
Hot and cc’d water in every room.
MRS. BERRY L. HICKS, Proprietress
SJS WEST 1SSD STREET	NEW YORK
Tour doors (rom Eighth Avenue
THE SOUTHERN RESTAURANT
2229 Fifth Avenue
Bet. 135th and 136th Sts.
Roal Homo Cooking; Meals Served at All Hours.
REASONABLE RATES EXCELLENT SERVICE
Home-made Rolls Served Hot
NORTH CAROLINA
SANDERS’ HOTEL
SOI S. Caldwoll Street, Charlotte, N. 0.
Ideal location for transient and permanent
boarders. All modern conveniences and comforts
of homo life.
J.	T. SANDERS
Proprietor
’Phone 2577 Lenox
GIRLS’
WHITE ROSE WORKING
HOME
217 East 86th Street
Bet, Second and Third Avenues
temporary lodgings for working girls,
with privi’.cgvs, at reasonable rates. The Home
scL.uts order* for working dresses, aprons, etc.
Address:
H38 FRANCES K KEYSER Snpt.
’Phono 681	Hot and Cold Baths
WARREN HOTEL
MISS BETTIE DUNCAN, Proprietress
First-class accommodations. Meals at all hours.
RATES REASONABLE
OOR. RAMSEY AND PROCTOR STREET8
Throe Blocks from Union Station
DURHAM. N. C.
IS YOUR HOTEL LISTED HERE?
IF NOT, WRITE US.
Mention Tn» Cm*'*.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
85
8. A. KELSEY, Pres. DR. WM. J. GARTER, Chiropodist MME A. C. KELSEY, Gcn'l Instr.
XTbe TRelseg School of iJBeautp Culture ant> 1batr Dressing
328 Lenox Avenue, New York City. Branch: 75 W. 135th Street
Personal instruction given in the Art of Manicuring, Shampooing, Hair Dressing,
Beauty Culture, Chiropody, and the manufacturing of Human Hair Goods. Send
for booklet-directory of the recently graduated students. Courses from $10 to $65.
KELLY MILLER’S WORKS
COMPREHENSIVE, CANDID, STATESMANLIKE.
RACE ADJUSTMENT
Large, octavo, 300 pages, best book, cloth, gilt edge, gold top. Price $2.00.
“Prof. Miller shows himself a master of an incisive style and a keen logician.”
—Cleveland Plain Dealer.
“Admirable for calmness and temper, thoroughness and skill.”—New York
Evening Post.
“Controversial, brilliantly so.”—New York Sun.
PAMPHLETS
Roosevelt and the Negro......................10c
Appeal to Reason.............................10c
Forty Years of Negro Education...............10c
The Ultimate Race Problem....................10c
The Political Capacity of the	Negro.........10c
The Talented Tenth.........................10c
Brief for the Higher Education of the Negro 10c
Primary Needs of the	Negro Race.........10c
Social Equality............................ 5c
Agents wanted. Apply to author, Howard University, Washington, D. C.
HOOT SUPREME		Hoo Hoo !	Hoo Hoo !	Hoo Hoo !
OFFICERS OF THE A A		SOMETHING NEW
		The Afro - American
iff o o o		Order of Owls With a Graduated Scale of Endowment
Home Nest Tree		WANTED — Organizers in every city in the United
110/2 West Colfax Ave.		States. For particulars write G. W. Bland. H. S. P.,
South Bend, Ind.		110^ Colfax Avenue, South Bend. Indiana.
Do You Want to Make Money?
CANVASSERS TO SELL SPHINX HANSOPE
Used in garage, machine shop, factory and home. Twenty-five boxes
for $1.25; you sell for $2.50. Whitens the skin, softens the hands, prevents
chapping, heals cracks and sores. The first aid in burns. Strictly antiseptic,
SPHINX LABOR-SAVING SOAP COM Inc,
117 West Street, New YorK City
Mention Tas Crisis.
86
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
HALF A MAN
The Status of the Negro in New York
By
MARY WHITE OVINGTON
With a Foreword by Dr. Franz Boas, of Columbia University
“My father has always lived in the
South,” a young colored man once said to
me, “and has attained success there; hut
when I ceased to be a boy he advised me
to live in the North,, where my manhood
would be respected. He himself cannot
continually endure his position of inferior-
ity, and in the summer he comes North to
be a man. No,” correcting himself, “to
be HALF A MAN. A Negro is wholly a
man only in Europe.”—Prom the Author’s
"Introduction.”
Miss Ovington’s description of the atatua
of the Negro in New York City is based on
a most painstaking inquiry into his social
and economic conditions, and brings out in
the most forceful way the difficulties under
which the race is laboring, even in the large
cosmopolitan population of New York. It
is a refutation of the claims that the Negro
has equal opportunity with the whites, and
that his failure to advance more rapidly
than he has, is due to innate inability.—
From Dr. Boas’ “Foreword.”
I2mo, cloth. Price $1.00 net. By mail, $1.12.
LONGMANS, GREEN & CO„ Publishers, NEW YORK
The above book may be purchased through any bookseller or will be mailed by
THE CRISIS on receipt of the price and postage.
THE DIFFERENCE
I	Between “GOOD ENOUGH*’ and the “BEST** is the
difference between ordinary print-shop work and ours.
Our facilities and long years of experience give
our work that INDIVIDUALITY which you appreciate in
your printed things.
We refer you to Mr. Conde Nast of Vogue and
Dr. W. E. B. Du Bois of The Crisis.
By the way, we print The Crisis. Do you like
it? If so, let us make an estimate on your work.
ROBERT N. WOOD
Mention Th* Calais.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION for the
ADVANCEMENT of COLORED PEOPLE
(Incorporated May 25, 1911)
OBJECT.—The National Association
for the Advancement of Colored People
is an organization composed of men and
women of all races and classes who be-
lieve that the present widespread increase
of prejudice against colored races and
particularly the denial of rights and
opportunities to ten million Americans of
Negro descent is not only unjust and a
menace to our free institutions, but also
is a direct hindrance to World Peace
and the realization of Human Brother-
hood.
METHODS.—The encouragement of
education and efforts for social uplift; the
dissemination of literature; the holding of
mass meetings; the maintenance of a lec-
ture bureau; the encouragement of vigi-
lance committees; the investigation of com-
plaints; the maintenance of a Bureau of
Information; the publication of The
CRISIS; the collection of facts and publi-
cation of the trulh.
ORGANIZATION.—All interested
persons are urged to join our organization
—associate membership costs $ 1, and
contributing and sustaining members pay
from $2 to $25 a year.
FUNDS.—We need $10,000 a year
for running expenses of this work and par-
ticularly urge the necessity of gifts to help
on our objects.
OFFICERS.—The officers of the
organization are:
National President — Mr. Moorfield
Storey, Boston, Mass.
Chairman of the Executive Committee—
Mr. Oswald Garrison Villard, New
York.
Treasurer—Mr. V^alter E. Sachs, New
York.
Director of Publicity and Research—Dr.
W. E. B. Du Bois, New York.
Secretary—Miss Mary W. Ovington,
New York.
COMMITTEE.—Our work is car-
ried on under the auspices of the follow-
ing General Committee, in addition to the
officers named:
Miss Gertrude B.imuru. New York.
Miss Prances Blascoer. New York.
•Rev. \V. H. Crooks. New York.
Prof. John Dewey. New York.
•Dr. John Lovejoy Elliott. New York
•Mrs. Thos. Ewing. Jr.. New York.
•Rev. John Haynes Holmes. New York.
Mr. Hamilton Holt, New Yoik.
Miss Maud R. In.-ersoll. New York.
•Mrs. Florence Kelley. New York.
*.Mr. Paul Kennaday. New York.
•Mrs. F. It. Keyser. New York.
Dr. Chas. Lenz. New York.
Mr. Jacob W. Mack. New York
•Mrs. M. D. Maclean. New York.
•Mr. John E. Milhollainl. New York.
Rev. Horace G. Miller. New York.
Mrs. Mas Morseutliau. Jr.. New York.
Mr. James K. Morton. Jr.. New York.
Mr. Henry Moskowitz. New York.
Miss Leonora O’Reilly. New York.
•Rev. A. Clayton Powell. New Yotk.
•Mr. Charles Edward Russell. New York.
Mr. Jacob H Sell lit. New York.
Prof. E. R. A. Seligman. New York.
•Dr. Joseph Silverman. New York.
Mrs. Anna Garlin Spencer. New Y'ork.
•Prof. J. E. Spingam. New York.
Mrs. Henry Villard. New York.
•Miss Lillian D. Wald. New York.
•Mr. Wm. English Walling. New York.
•Bishop Alexander Walters. New York.
Dr. Stephen S. Wise. New York.
Miss M. R Lyons. Brooklyn. N. Y.
•Dr. O. M. Waller. Brooklyn. N. Y.
Mr. D. Macon Webster. Brooklyn. N. Y.
Mr. Geo. E. Wibecau. Jr.. Brooklyn. N. Y.
Mrs. W. II. Talbert. Buffalo. N. Y.
Hon. Thos. M. Osborne. Auburn. N. Y.
•Mr. W. L. Bulkley. Ridgefield Park. N. J.
Mr. George W. Crawford. New Haven. Conn.
Miss Maria Baldwin. Boston. Mass.
Mr. Francis J. Garrison. Boston. Mass.
Mr. Archibald H Grimke. Boston. Mass.
Miss Adelene Moffat. Boston. Mass.
•Mr. Albert E. Pillsbury. Boston. Mass.
Mr Wm. Munroe Trotter. Boston. Mass.
Dr. Horace Bumstead. Brookline. Mass.
Miss Elizabeth C. Caiter. New Bedford. Mass.
Rev. Harvey Johnston. Baltimore. Md.
Rev. Garnett R. Walter. Baltimore. Md.
PresL Chas. T. Thwinz. Cleveland. O.
Mr. Chas. W. Chesnutt. Cleveland. O.
Hon. Harry C. Smith. Cleveland. O.
Prest. H. C. Ivin.*. Oberlln. O.
PresL W. S. Scarborough. Wilberforce. O.
•.Miss Jane Addams. Chicago. 111.
•Mrs. Ida B. Wells Barnett. Chicago. I1L
•Dr. C. E. Bentley. Chicago. 111.
Miss Sophronlsba Breckenridge. Chicago. 111.
Mr Clarence Darrow. Chicago. 111.
Mr. Julius Rosenwald. Chicago. 111.
Mrs. Celia Parker Woolley. Chicago. 111.
Mr. F. L. McGhee. St. Paul. Minn.
Miss Frances Bartholomew. Philadelphia, Pa.
•Dr. N. F. Mossell. Philadelphia. Pa.
•Dr. Wm. A. SlncLtir. Philadelphia. Pa.
Miss Susan Wharton. Philadelphia. Pa.
Mr. R. R. Wright. Jr.. Philadelphia. Pa.
Mr. W. Justin Carter. Harrisburg. Pa.
Rev. Haney Johnson. D. D.. Baltimore. Md.
Hon. Wm. S. Bennet. Washington. D. C.
Mrs. Carrie W. Clifford. Washington. D. C.
Mr. L M. Hershaw. Washington. D. C.
Prof. Kelly Miller. Washington. D. C.
Prof. L. B. Moore. Washington. D. C.
Justice W. P. Stafford. Washington. D. C.
•Mrs. Mary Church Terrell. Washington, D. C.
•Rev. J. Milton Waldron. Washington. D. C.
PresL John Hope. Atlanta. Ga.
Mr. Leslie P. Hill. Manassas. Va.
Mr. William Pickens, Talladega. Ala.
•Executive Committee.
OFFICES:
Suite 311, 20 Vesey Street, New York.
'■sirl , * •
•V; '.	• JV

A ONE-DOLLAR
Cliristmas Gift of (Quality
This petticoat is made of a fine HYDEGRADE
fabiic, deep plaiting, two insertions of black and white.
Made in black, Copenhagen, navy, green, brown, gray
and champagne. All sizes.
What is a more fitting gift for mother, wife,
sister 01 sweetheart than several of these handsome silk-
like petticoats ? And they’d never guess the price—just
One Dollar each. Packed in special Christmas box and
expressed to you prepaid. Send your order to-day.
Delivery will be made promptly when requested.
THINK OF IT!
This Beautiful §-(i oo
PETTICOAT	=
HOME GARMENT CO.
Box 210G, G cneral P. O.	New York City

■ ■■
' ‘ ££<:<?■ —
1
M

y ‘ "b5- .-9 *?
\V®
V—L
***•£«’< , £ .£ '

Aida Overton Walker says: “I cheer-
fully recommend
VELVA
to the discriminating woman who appreciates a
velvety complexion.”
Vclva is a medicated cream, delightfully
perfumed. Unequaled for the complexion.
Heals rashes, blackheads and pimples. A
new and very scientific production.
TRIAL SIZE BOX. MAILED POSTPAID, 15c
Alexander S
150 Nassau Street
pecialty Co.
New York City
AIDA OVERTON \VA1 kftj
One .1 the «reat„t danceri ^ ^	creams, ^
Headquarters for toilet preparations. Write
for free price list of talcum, face, tooth and
foot powders, perfumes, toilet soaps, massage


NEW YEAR
JANUARY. 1912
V olume 3	: NumL er 3
ONS DOLLAR A YEAR
TEN CENTS A COPY
Some Things Y ou Should Know
AJbout The Crisis Advertisers
^ As an advertising medium The Crisis is now past the experimental
stage and our advertising columns represent actual result-getting values,
because, in correspondence with our advertisers, we find that our readers
are very responsive.
This confidence you have in the printed promises of our advertisers is
the best evidence that you appreciate our determined efforts to keep our
advertising columns clean and gives us the power to encourage the growth
and extend the usefulness of every honest business.
CJ By refusing all advertisements which include impossible propositions
and exaggerated statements, we will keep our standard high and make
our advertising columns a real service to our readers and not a medium
for unscrupulous schemers and fakers.
Recently a full-page advertisement came to us, which was an invest-
ment proposition. The idea was a good one and we hastened to investi-
gate the integrity and business experience of the prospective advertiser.
We found that the prospective advertiser was honest and had saved a
few hundred dollars, but his former activities had been directed along lines
that did not give sufficient experience to justify his judicious investment
of other people’s money in an untried proposition. We therefore refused
to sell him space. The CRISIS offers its columns and prestige to any
investment backed by an established business, managed by honest, con-
servative, experienced men, but we will never invite our readers to invest in
mere ideas and experiments.
We have such confidence in our advertisers that rve offer to reimburse
our readers for anloss thep sustain through their failure to keep promises
made in The CRISIS.
C[ While we are not the pioneer magazine to exclude fake advertise-
ments from its columns, we are the first of the so-called “colored papers
to take this stand and offer to make good its readers’ losses.
ALBON L. HOLSEY, Advertising Manager
THE CRISIS
A RECORD OF THE DARKER RACES
Published by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, at
20 Vesey Street, New York City.
W. E. BURGHARDT DU BOIS. Editor
M. D. MACLEAN, Managing Editor
FRANK M. TURNER. Circulation Manager
ALBON L. HOLSEY, Advertising Manager
Contributing
Editors
OSWALD GARRISON 'VILLARD
J. MAX BARBER
CHARLES EDWARD RUSSELL
W. S BRAITHWAITE
KELLY MILLER
CONTENTS FOR JANUARY, 1912
COVER PICTURE. By John Henry Adams.
PACE
ALONG THE COLOR LINE............................... 95
MEN OF THE MONTH.................................. 102
OPINION .............................................. 104
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE................................. 109
EDITORIAL ......................................   113
HERE IN THE TIME OF THE WINTER MORN. Poem by William Moore 116
THE DOUGLASS HOSPITAL OF PHILADELPHIA............. 118
HISTORIC DAYS IN JANUARY.	By	L.	M.	Hershaw........ 120
THE BURDEN........................................ 121
THE VISION OF A LYNCHER. Poem by Leslie Pinckney Hill. 122
WHAT TO READ...................................... 123
CIRCULATION, 16,000 COPIES
Agents wonted who can furnish references.
Entered as second-class matter in the post office at New York City.
92
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
FORWARD
MARCH YOUR SON OFF TO
Wilberforce University
The only school in the country for
Negro Youth which has a Military De-
partment equipped by the National
Government, and commanded by a detailed
United States Army Officer.
DEPARTMENTS
MILITARY	SCIENTIFIC
NORMAL	TECHNICAL
COMMERCIAL	THEOLOGICAL
CLASSICAL	MUSICAL
PREPARATORY
Banking taught by the actual operations
in the Students’ Savings Bank Twelve
Industries, 180 acres, of beautiful campus,
Ten Buildings. Healthful surroundings,
exceptional community Maintained in
part by the State of Ohio which supplies
facilities for the thorough training of
teachers.
Fall term began September 19th, 1911.
Write for Catalog.
W. S. SCARBOROUGH, President
WM. A. JOINER, Superintendent, C. N.
I. Department.
Address all communications to
BOX 36	WILBERFORCE. OHIO
Atlanta University
Is beautifully located in the City of Atlanta, G»-
The courses of study includo High School, Nor-
mal School and College, with manual training
and domestic science. Among tho teachers are
graduates of Yolo, Harvard, Dartmouth, Smith
and Wellesley. Forty-ono yonrs of successful
work hnvo been completed. Students come from
all parts of tho South. Graduates are almost
universally successful.
For further information address
President EDWARD T. WARE
ATLANTA, OA.
Knoxville College
Beautiful Situation, Healthful Location
The Best Moral and Spiritual Environment
A Splendid Intellectual Atmosphere
Noted for Honest and Thorough Worfc
Offers full courses in tho following depart-
ments: College, Normal, High School, Grammar
School and Industrial.
Good water, steam heat, electric lights, good
drainage. Expenses very reasonable.
Opportunity for Self-help.
Fall Term Opened Sept. 27, 1911.
For information address
President R. W. McGranaltan
KNOXVILLE, TENN.
Uirginia Union University
RICHMOND, VA.
A College Department, of high standards and
modern curriculum.
A Theological Department, with all subjects
generally required in the best theological
seminaries.
An Academy, with manual training, giving
a preparation for life or for college.
The positive moral and religious aim of the
school, its high standards of entrance and of
class work, its fine new buildings and well-
equipped laboratories and library, prepare a
faithful student for a life of wide usefulness.
GEORGE RICE HOVEY, President
American Church Institute
for Negroes
SIX SCHOOLS
The Bishop Payne Divinity School. Peters-
burgh, Vs., Warden, the Reverend O. B. Bryan,
D.D.; St. Augustine's School, Raleigh, N. O., for
normal and colloginte training, the Reverend A.
B. Hunter, Principal; the St. Paul Normal and
Industrial School, Lawrenceville. Va., the Rev-
erend James S. Russell. Principal: St. Atha-
nasius’ School, Brunswick. Ga.. Mr. A. N. Perry,
Principal; St. Mark's School. Birmingham, Ala.,
the Reverend C. W. Brooks. Principal: the
Vicksburg Industrial School. Vicksburg, Miss.,
tho Reverend W. H. Marshall, Principal. For
information apply to the principal at any school
or to tho Reverend Samuel H. Bishop, General
Agent, 416 Lafayette Street, New York City.
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
93
HALF A MAN
The Status of the Negro in New York
By
MARY WHITE OVINGTON
With a Foreword by Dr. Franz Boas, of Columbia University
“My father has always lived in the
South,”'a young colored man once said to
me, “and has attained success there; but
when I ceased to be a boy he advised me
to live in the North, where _ my manhood
would be respected. He himself cannot
continually endure his position of inferior-
ity, and in the summer he comes North to
be a man. No,” correcting himself, “to
be HALF _A MAJL A Negro is wholly a
man only in Europe.”—From the Author's
"Introduction
12mo, cloth. Price $1
LONGMANS, GREEN & CC
Miss Ovington’s description of the status
of the Negro in New York City is based on
a most painstaking inquiry into his social
and economic conditions, and brings out in
the most forceful way the difficulties under
which the race is laboring, even in the large
cosmopolitan population of New York. It
is a refutation of the claims that the Negro
has equal opportunity with the whites, and
that his failure to advance more rapidly
than he has, is due to innate inability.—
From Dr. Boas' "Foreword/’
00 net. By mail, $1.12.
L, Publishers, NEW YORK
The above book may be purchased through any bookseller or will be mailed by
THE CRISIS on receipt of the price and postage.
I
The
Quest
o£ the
Silver
Fleece
A Novel
by
\V.E. BURGH ARDT
DU BOIS
Drawings by
H.	S. DE LAY
Here is a story of the darker world
in the South and in Washington, D. C.
It is dramatic in style and absorbing
in interest and expresses the feeling
Atlanta University
Studies of the
Negro Problems
15 Monographs. Sold Separately.
Address:
A. G. DILL
Atlanta University, Atlanta, Ga.
PUBLICATIONS
A. M. E. Book Concern Philadelphia, Pa.
of colored people about themselves
and their own problems; at the same
time it shows how both black folk
and white are caught in the power of
King Cotton.
AT ALL BOOKSTORES
PRICE SI.35 NET

A. C.
New York
McCLURG & CO.
Chicago San Francisco
THE POEMS OF PHILLIS WHEATLEY.
Reprint of first edition 1773; a valuable book.
Price, $1.00.
THE NEGRO PROBLEM. An analysis: What
It Is Not and What It Is; by R. R. Wright, Jr.
In pamphlet form, 15 cents.
THE COLORED REGULARS. By T. G.
Steward, Chaplain U. S. A., retired. Price, $1.50.
EVOLUTION AND LITE. By Algernon B.
Jackson, Surgeon-in-chief Mercy Hospital. Price,
75 cents.
THE NEGRO IN PENNSYLVANIA. A Study
in Economic History; By R. R. Wright, Jr.,
Sometime Research Fellow in Sociology in the
University of Pennsylvania. Price, Paper, $2.00:
Cloth, $2.50.
Address
A. M. E. BOOK CONCERN
631 Pine Street,	Philadelphia, Pa..
Mention Tiie Crisis.
94
THE
CRISIS
ADVERTISER
Papers on Interracial Problems
Communicated to the
FIRST UNIVERSAL RACES CONGRESS
Held at the University of London, July 26-29, 1911
Published by the World Peace Foundation, 29A Beacon Street, Boston, Mass.
530 pages, mailing price, $2.40
THE Universal Races Congress, held in London, July 26-29, 1911, was tho most impor-
tant conference ever held upon the mutual relations and duties of various races and
_ Peoples. It can only be compared with tho great Parliament of Religions at Chicago
in 1S93, which, in another hut a related field marked an epoch. Tho London Races Con-
gress has focused the mind of the	world	upon the necessity	of mutual	respect, good under-
standing and real co-operation between	the different races	of men.	Lord Weardale, the
president of the congress, properly	viewed it as an event in	tho great	movement for inter-
national justice and peace, for the	wars	of our time spring	repeatedly	from racial antago-
nisms and misunderstandings and the exploitation of weaker peoples by stronger—and the
work "will be read as eagerly by the members of the peace societies and the Mohonk Confer-
ences as by the members of the Indian Rights Association and the Association for tho Advance-
ment of Colored People. The large volume of more than five hundred pages contains not
°n j v Y10 PaP°rs presented to the congress, but a complete list of the officers of tho congress
and the hundreds of persons in all countries (there are nearly two hundred from the United
States alone) who were interested in its promotion. The list of the papers included in the
volume will best indicate its scope, variety and unique significance, and this list will be sent
to any person applying to the World Peace Foundation, 29A Beacon Street, Boston, Mass.
. Among tho addresses in the volume of special interest to the readers of The Crisis
Magazine are the following:
‘The West African Problem,” Pastor
“The World Position of the Negro and
Negroid.” Sir Harry H. Johnston.
“Native Races of South Africa,” J. Tengo
Jabavu, Kingwilliamstown, South Africa.
“The Negro Race in the United States of
America,” Dr. W. E. B. Du Bois.
A	•* vow ;ui ituu jl 1 uuiuui,	*
Mojola Agbebi, D. D., Director of the Niger
Delta Mission.
"The Negro Problem in Relation to White
| Women,” Frances Hoggan, M. D., London.
THE LIFE AND WORKS OF
Paul Laurence D unb
ar
Containing his complete poetical works, his best short
stories, numerous anecdotes and a complete biography of
the famous poet.
EXTRACT FROM INTRODUCTION.
1 think I should scarcely trouble the reader with a special appeal
in behalf of this book if it had not specially appealed to me for
reasons apart from the author’s race, origin and condition. The
world is too old now and I find myself too much of its mood to care
for the work of a poet because he is black; because his father and
mother were slaves; because he was, beforo aud after ho began to
write poems, an elevator boy. These facts would certainly attract
mo to him as a man if I knew him to have a literary ambition, but
when it came to his literary art, I must judge it irrespective of these
facts, and enjoy or endure it for what it was in itself.
—William Dean Howells.
Profusely illustrated with over half a hundred full-page
photo and half-tone engravings.
Cloth $2 Half Morocco $2.75 Full Morocco $3.75
------------------- SALES AGENT--------------------
J. G. GUILES
214A St. Antoine Street	Montreal, Can.
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS
Volume Tlirec
JANUARY, 1912
Numt er Three
ALONG
COLOR LINE
EDUCATION.
The Southern Educational Association
met in Houston, Tex., early in Decem-
ber. One of the subjects taken up was
the education of the Negro. The prin-
cipal address on that subject was made
by W. S. Sutton, dean of the department
of education in the University of Texas.
He emphasized the “education’' of the
Negro in slavery and the amount which
the white Southerner is supposed to have
paid for colored schools. He laid down
the following principles: That the Negro
was essentially human and could be edu-
cated; that Negroes should be the chief
agents for their own education: that pro-
fessional education of teachers was
especially needed; that the education of
Negroes should be compulsory, and that
there should be a spirit of co-operation
among all who want to help Negro
education.
There • were about 1,200 educators
present, but Negroes were not expected,
and, of course, no Negro was on. the
program. The resolutions adopted con-
cerning Negro education were consider-
ably below Sutton’s advice. They were
as follows:
“We affirm our contention that the
welfare of the white people of the South-
ern States requires the proper education
and training of the youth of the Negro.
Under present conditions the efforts of
the Southern people should be more
largely and immediately directed to the
training of the Negro youth in the prac-
tical industries which directly affect his
physical welfare, such as agriculture,
stock and poultry raising, cooking and
the arts and thrift and economy. Instruc-
tion in hygiene and sanitation is of
paramount importance. Unless the
Negro home is made clean and sanitary'
and efforts made to prevent contagion
and eliminate disease from the cities and
towns, all efforts educationally will be
futile.”
It is thus manifest that the most
advanced section of Southern public
opinion has at present only reached the
place where they can advise the educa-
tion of black people for the benefit of
white people.
CJ The president of Howard University
has pointed out that the United States
Government gave last year $1,430,000 to
Indian education and $100,000 to Negro
education.
Q The parlous condition of Negro edu-
cation is revealed from time to time. In
Norfolk, Va.. for instance, the common
council voted down an appropriation for
a sorely needed Negro school and were
only brought finally' to appropriate the
money by the threat of a law suit.
CJ In the common council of Richmond,
Va., the school board recommended an
advance in the pay of elementary school
teachers, but this was finally pruned
down to a proposition for increasing the
pay of white school teachers.
CJ One community in Alabama with 400
colored school children receives $100 a
year from the educational fund of
Alabama.
<1 W. D. Weatherford, a white Southern
international secretary of the Y. M. C.
A., said in a recent speech: “What is
greatly needed is more and better schools
for the Negro. In the country districts
S5 per cent, of the schools that are pro-
vided for the Negro are huts that are
96
THE
CRISIS
unworthy of the name schoolhouse. With
no glass windows and unsanitary condi-
tions their opportunities to procure an
education are greatly retarded. Give them
better, schools and better training and
it will be of more benefit to the nation
than anything else. Give them a
chance.*’
ECONOMICS.
A colored man is claiming a large part
of the city of Wilmington, N. C., through
legitimate descent from Colonial ances-
tors. It seems that his grandmother, a
white woman, is the source of his claim.
CJ Mound Bayou, a Negro town in Mis-
sissippi, has instituted a telephone ex-
change.
Cl A Negro corporation has bought a
large estate, consisting of about 600
acres on the Mississippi River, for which
they are paying $17,500.
<3 Negro bricklayers are building a new
extension to the capitol of Alabama at
Montgomery.
Cj Albert J. White, a colored contractor,
has contracted for building the largest
paper mill in Southern Michigan.
<3 The presiding elder of the Houston
district, Texas, in the M. E. Church,
announces that every one of his pastors
owns a home.
CJ Calhoun colored school, in the black
belt of Alabama, reports that in sixteen
years the colored settlers round about
have bought over 3,300 acres and paid
$26,793 for the land. Also 638 additional
acres are being bought, for which $2,023
has been paid, and $6,165 has been paid
as rent on the farm by people who did
not purchase. In addition to this, $6,582
has been paid for new homes, making a
grand total of $41,563.
CJ The white chauffeurs in New York
and many other places are seeking to
drive colored men out of the business,
their excuse being that the colored men
work for lower wages and do menial
work. One colored chauffeur says: “They
certainly did give us a rough deal when
we tried to stable in white garages. They
would put mothballs in our gasolene
tanks, short-circuit our ignition system
and throw the carbureter out of adjust-
ment. One man put emery into my gas-
olene tank. Several times next day the
car shut down and didn’t run until I had
taken out four ounces of emery.” One
colored chauffeur was assaulted and
beaten.
q Continual efforts are being made by
dissatisfied members to wreck the Vir-
ginia Order of True Reformers.
•I The importation of American Negro
miners is threatening trouble in Winni-
peg, Canada.
*2 The report on the colored people of
Huntington, W. Va., by J. W. Scott says
that the 3,000 colored people of that
city have purchased real estate in the
past ten years amounting to $262,650.
There arc ten colored persons in the city
whose combined properties will amount
to $100,000. Altogether there are 190
property holders, and the valuation of
their real estate holdings amounts to
$382,650.
Q A colored fraternal order in Albany,
Ga., is about to build a $50,000 temple.
*1 The New Orleans Times-Democrat
lias the following note from Mississippi-
“It is stated that the Negroes in the
boll-weevil territory are in better shape
financially and every other way than they
have been since they were set free. They
have learned to produce what they need
to eat on their own farms, making cot-
ton a secondary crop, and are independ-
ent of the supply merchant. No doubt
the same is true of thousands of white
farmers. For the first time in their lives
they have been thrown on their own
resources, and it was ‘sink or swim’ with
many of them, for the reason that the
merchants could not afford to furnish
them, as they did before the advent of
the weevil.”
An unknown safe blower has robbed
a colored bank of $1,099 at Birmingham.
Ala.
POLITICS.
The Natchez (Miss.) News had the fol-
lowing announcement on election day:
“To-day’s general election in Mississippi,
as has been the case for the past twenty
years, or ever since the elimination of
the Negro from political affairs, will be
a mere ratification of the Democratic
nominees.”
*3 W. T. Andrews, of South Carolina, a
colored editor, in a letter to Senator
Bourne, says: “In the presidential elec-
tion of 190S the States of Alabama,
Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana,
Mississippi, North Carolina, South Caro-
lina, Texas and Virginia, in which the
Negro has been disfranchised in open
and flagrant violation of the Constitution
of the United States, elected 106 mem-
bers of the Electoral College upon a
total vote of 1,329,767, while the two
States of Ohio and Colorado cast a vote
of 1,385,465 for only twenty-eight elect-
ors, it thus appearing that in the South,
where the Negro is disfranchised, in the
election of Congressmen 4,000 white
voters in South Carolina are equal to
50,000 white voters in Indiana and 3.000
in Mississippi are equal to 47,489 in Ore-
ALONG
THE
COLOR
LINE
97
gon, and in electing a President 12,000
white voters in ten States which have
disfranchised Negroes are equal to 49,000
in two States which have fair and equal
election laws honestly enforced."
The Macon (Ga.) Telegraph says that
55,000 Georgia Negroes voted for McKin-
ley, but that since the disfranchisement
law there are only 12,000 Negro voters
registered.
•I The Socialists of New York are ask-
ing for money to forward their propa-
ganda among colored people.
Edward D. Mallery, a colored man,
has been nominated as candidate for
common council on the Republican ticket
at Brockton, Mass.
SOCIAL UPLIFT.
A monument has been erected to the
late F. W. Starks, supreme chancellor of
the colored Knights of Pythias, at
Charlestown, W. Va. The monument cost
$2,700.
Thomas Nelson Page has published a
letter of General Lee urging the enlist-
ing of slaves as soldiers during the Civil
War. General Lee said: “I do not think
our white population can supply the
necessities of a long war without over-
taxing its capacity and imposing great
suffering upon our people. In my opin-
ion Negroes, under proper circumstances,
will make efficient soldiers. Under good
officers and good instructors I do not
see why they should not become soldiers.
They possess all the physical qualifica-
tions, and their habits of obedience con-
stitute a good foundation for discipline."
This letter was written February 18,
1S65, when it was evident that the Con-
federacy was in extremis. General Lee
also recommended that the Negroes who
enlisted with the consent of their owners
be manumitted. The Confederate Con-
gress, in the March following, adopted
General Lee’s suggestions to the extent
of authorizing the enlistment of Negroes,
but neglected to adopt his suggestion as
to emancipation.
C]j A colored woman has given a half
acre of ground to the colored Y. W.
C.	A. near Kansas City.
<1 The Douglass Hospital of Kansas
City has been recently remodeled, and is
now open again to the public.
<3 New theatres for colored people are
planned in Winston-Salem, N. C.; Indian-
apolis, Ind., and New York City.
In St. Louis, Mo., the colored women
have raised $2,200 for a Y. W. C. A. and
enrolled 700 members. The branch will
open formally January 1.
THE CHURCH.
The new St. John’s Congregational
Church in Springfield, Mass., was dedi-
cated recently. Dr. Philip Moxon
preached the sermon. The pastor is the
Rev. W. N. DeBerry, who has raised
nearly all of the $25,000 which the church
cost.
<3 A $10,000 A. M. E. church has just
been completed at La Mott, Pa. It was
built entirely by colored mechanics after
the plans of a colored architect.
<| The Northern and Southern Presbyte-
rian Churches, the United Presbyterian
Church and the Dutch and German
Reformed Churches are seeking to con-
solidate their missionary work among
colored people of the South.
<J Agitation inside the Methodist Epis-
copal Church concerning its colored
membership still continues. Bishop
Moore is urging two colored bishops for
the colored work. He says in a recent
article:	“In our domestic work we
have nineteen conferences and one mis-
sion composed of colored members,
numbering altogether about 300,454 com-
municants. At the last general confer-
ence there were twenty effective general
superintendents or one for every 174,299
members. According to their ratio, the
colored members would be entitled to
two (i. e., one and two-thirds) general
superintendents."
There are two colored sisterhoods
in the United States, namely, the
Oblates of Providence, founded in 1829,
whose motherhouse is in Baltimore,
Md., and the Sisters of the Holy Family,
founded in 1842, whose motherhouse is
in New Orleans, La.
Cf A new Negro Catholic church has
been dedicated at Little Rock, Ark.
PERSONAL.
Mr. A. Le Roy Locke, Rhodes scholar
and student at the University of Berlin,
is visiting in this country.
CJ General Antenor Firmin died in exile
at St. Thomas, D. W. I. Firmin was a
leader of the advanced party of the Hai-
tians, and together with Frederick Doug-
lass did much to keep the United States
from acquiring a coaling station in Haiti.
He was a gentleman of fine presence and
scholarly attainments.
<3 Rev. Dr. Augustus Shepard, of Dur-
ham, N. C., has recently died. He was
a pastor of great influence and his
funeral was solemnized with an impress-
ive procession of representative men.
<J Mr. H. T. Kealing, of Western Uni-
versity, Quindaro, Kan., made a telling
address before the Kansas State Teach-
98
THE CRISIS
ers’ Association, consisting of white and
colored teachers, at their forty-ninth
annual session.
CJ After some delay which has not been
altogether explained, the usual banquet
has been tendered the Honorable W. H.
Lewis, at Washington, D. C., the colored
Assistant United States Attorney. Mr. L.
M.	Hcrshaw was toastmaster.
The Honorable James N. Johnson,
United States Consul to Nicaragua,
together with his wife, is in America on
leave of absence.
*3 The Washington Conservatory of
Music, of Washington, D. C., has
announced a course of artists’ recitals for
the season of 1911-1912.
Mr. Carl R. Diton, pianist, of Philadel-
phia, Pa., who returned recently from
study in Germany, was engaged for the
first recital, which took place December
11.	He was assisted by Mrs. Annie Hazel-
ton Lee, soprano, of Baltimore, Md. This
conservatory, under the directorship of
Mrs. Harriet Gibbs-Marshall, is giving
valuable aid in developing a taste for the
best music and is becoming an art influ-
• * -e
ART.
The esteemed young Russian violinist,
Et'ram Ziinbalist, chose for his New York
and Boston recitals “Tallahassie,” a fan-
tasie on Negro melodies, by Cyril Scott.
Scott is an English composer of the
extreme impressionistic school.
I Mr. George Vaughn, cornetist, has
^turned to New York from a concert
)ur with an orchestra. Pie is an expert
ornetist and has substituted with the
few York Symphony Orchestra, Walter
)amrosch, conductor. Mr. Vaughn is
Iso a student of the art of painting and
~~ -	nrfic;tic canvases to
C] On November 16, at the second con-
cert of the series given by the Boston
Symphony Orchestra in Cambridge,
Mass., the orchestral piece, “Comedy
Overture on Negro Themes,” by H. F.
Gilbert, appeared on the program. This
fine overture was one of the surprises of
the symphony concerts last spring. It
is based on motives from traditional
Negro songs and dances.
Cj The latest achievement of Mr. Samuel
Coleridge-Taylor is the choral work, “A
Tale of Old Japan,” the poem by Alfred
Noyes, set to music for soli, chorus and
orchestra. The cantata was given for
the first time on October 25, by the Lon-
don (England) Choral Society at Queen’s
Hall.
Other performances are immediately
announced for this season by the Crystal
Palace Orchestral Society, Waterloo,
Liverpool Choral Society, the Claughton
St. Cecelia and the Lichfield Musical
Society.
<3 Mme. Estelle Pinckney Clough, so-
prano, appeared in concert in Greendale,
Norwich, Conn., and in Springfield,
Mass., during the month of December.
<3 Musical America states that in
November Mr. Harry T. Burleigh ap-
peared at a concert given by the
Women’s Club, of New Britain, Conn.,
and scored a pronounced success.
*3 Mr. Harry A. Williams, tenor, of
Cleveland, O., has been appointed
director of the vocal department of the
Washington Conservatory of Music,
Washington, D. C. Mr. Williams was
a pupil of Shrigha in London and of
Dclle Sedie in Paris. He is an artist of
skill and a ripened musician with dis-
tinctive qualities for teaching.
CJ A beautiful small “Dunbar” calendar,
with extracts from the poet’s writings,
has been published by Mrs. Dunbar. Its
sale will help “Neighborhood House,” a
social settlement in Wilmington, Del.
CD A sister of Plenry O. Tanner has pub-
lished an album of reproductions of his
chief paintings.
*D Colored art students of Greater New
York have held an excellent exhibit of
their work. Among the chief exhibitors
were J. C. De Villis, Ernest Braxton and
Robert H. Lewis.
<3 The Interstate Literary Association of
Kansas and the West will offer prizes
for writing, music and painting at its
December meeting.
C|I The Athenaeum says of a recent
exhibition of antiquities in London that
they “afford a clear idea of the scope and
nature of Ethiopian art, which it is now
plain must have been largely indigenous,
and owed less than was supposed to
Egyptian influence. The pottery here
shown is of a ware perfectly different
from anything in Egypt, and it is notable
that all the larger vessels are evidently
modeled from gourds and other vegeta-
ble forms, instead of. as in the earlier
Egyptian types, from baskets and ivories.
Their construction displays high techni-
cal skill, and a young Negro’s head in
sandstone, if it is indeed of native work,
shows that the Ethiopians were in sculp-
ture far superior to the Egyptians of any
but the earliest dynasties. Some neo-
lithic implements, axes, and the like, of
polished stone, show, too, that their civ-
ilization was of considerable antiquity,
and some beautifully shaped arrow heads,
either of glass or translucent stones, are
longer, narrower and more delicate than
any yet found in Egypt.”
ALONG
THE
COLOR LINE
99
THE GHETTO.
The National Single Tax League met
at Chicago and arranged a dinner at the
Hotel La Salle. They found, however,
that Negro guests would not be welcome,
and immediately took the meeting to
another hotel. Joseph Fels, the million-
aire patron of the league, said: “There
will be no compromise here. I am a Jew
and know something of race exclusion.
We will either call off the banquet or go
some place where the colored men may
srt with us at our own table as equals.
This organization stands for the equality
of all men."
CJ Senator Money, of Mississippi, at-
tended a dinner of the Western Eco-
nomic Society at the Auditorium Hotel
of Chicago and found colored members
at the table. He made a hurried
departure.
CJ The only colored fireman in the New
York Fire Department has been retired
on a pension of $700.
<3 There has been the usual number of
protests against Negro residents in cer-
tain districts.
In Denver, Col., a colored dentist con-
tracted for a residence on Vine Street
and great pressure is being brought to
bear upon the contractor not to fulfil
his engagement.
In Middleburg, N. Y., an apartment
house for colored families is being pro-
tested against.
In South Park, Mo., the buying of
town lots by Negro residents is causing
a stir.
Efforts in the Harlem district of New
York City to restrict Negro residents
have proven ineffective. A dead line was
ordered at 136th Street, but the Negroes
have already reached 139th Street and
further, and there is fresh agitation.
CJ In Sneedville, a little town in East
Tennessee, the disturbing fact has
become known that colored and white
children are attending the local school
together.
<3 One of the indefensible things that
often happens in communities which have
separate colored schools is the placing of
the colored school in the worst districts
of the town, morally and physically. The
colored people at Baton Rouge, La., for
instance, are protesting to the school
board because their school is in the
heart of the “Red Light” district.
<3 A prominent colored physician, Dr. C.
V. Roman, editor of the Medical Jour-
nal, and Mr. Ira T. Bryant, secretary of
the A. M. E. Sunday School Union, were
recently injured in a wreck near Mem-
phis. They were given no relief for
seven hours, and finally, when they asked
for passes back to Memphis, one of the
trainmen wrote out this pass: “Take two
'niggers’ to Memphis.”
<3 In Abilene, Tex., sixty persons, repre-
senting a wealth of $3,000,000, signed
a bond for $1,000 in behalf of Mrs. Lucy
Matheson, who recently shot and killed
her husband at the home of Stella Ram-
sey, a colored woman.
Bankers, merchants and rich cattle-
men were among the signers, including
her father, mother and grandfather. A
party of miners started from Mingus
to Abilene for the purpose of doing
violence to the colored woman, but they
were met and persuaded to return. A
strong guard, however, is maintained at
the jail where Mrs. Ramsey is held.
Mrs. Matheson went to the colored
woman's home, stepped on the front
porch, whipped out her revolver and
fired through a screened window six
times. One bullet went through her
husband’s head, killing him instantly.
The Warren colored church at Pitts-
burgh purchased a plot of ground on
Center Avenue costing $10,250. On this
they built an unusually beautiful church.
This and the adjoining plot were under
a mortgage. The real estate company,
in order to get rid’ of the colored peo-
ple, let the interest on the adjoining
plot of land, which they still held, re-
main unpaid. The mortgage thereupon
lapsed, and the colored church was
asked to raise $6,000 in thirty days or
lose the property. They raised the
money.
Cj Edward Shipley, of the Brown Uni-
versity football team, left college because
he considered himself insulted by his
mates. The matter was quickly looked
into by the authorities and Shipley
returned to the team.
CJ Purdue University has tried to sto.p a
colored boy from playing on the Iowa
football team, but has not succeeded.
CJ In Witchita, Kan., the new superin-
tendent is trying to establish separate
schools for the races.
CJ The Camden (New Jersey) High
School authorities will pay no attention,
it is said, to the protest filed by members
of the senior class against Herbert Pri-
inas, a colored student, being permitted
to compete in the oratorical contest for
the Wilbur F. Rose prizes of gold. Pri-
mas is one of the six members of the
class who have qualified for the finals,
and objection had been raised to him
because of his color.
Cjj Mrs. Laura Morgan, a colored woman
of Brookfield, 111., is suing the village
for $10,000. She alleges that the Vil-
lage Board of Trustees entered her home
late at night two years ago, ejected her
and put her in jail and tore down the
house on the pretense that it did not
conform to the building ordinance. She
says the real reason is race prejudice.
100
the crisis
*3 The New Orleans Picayune has this
note: "Some of the Shreveport lawyers
are exercised over the report that a local
Negro, Charles Roberson, is seeking a
law examination, with a view of practic-
ing before the local bar, which is com-
posed exclusively of white men. Sev-
eral local attorneys are understood to
have signed the Negro’s application for
a certificate. Owing to the unusual situ-
ation, the Bar Association held a lengthy
meeting this morning behind closed
doors. What transpired was withheld
from the public, but some of the inter-
ested citizens are pretty certain that Rob-
erson will likely change his mind about
applying for the ‘exam.’ ”
<3 There is continued opposition to the
location of Negro eleemosynary institu-
tions. In a suburb of Chicago residents
are objecting to a home for colored
children. In Waco, Tex., and Salem,
Ore., the whites do not want Negro
churches built. In Bessemer, Ala., whites
are protesting against a $50,000 Masonic
Home. In Los Angeles, Cal., there is
trouble about a colored children’s home.
COURTS.
Hoke Smith, of Georgia, found himself
outside the line of political promotion on
account of his opposition to “free silver.”
He thereupon used the Southern expe-
diency of vilifying the Negro to get back
into political life, and finally has reached
the goal of his ambition by becoming
United States Senator. On retiring from
the office of Governor, he has attempted
to make some expiation for his wretched
conduct by clemency toward colored con-
victs. He declares that fully 500 Negro
convicts in the penitentiary ought to be
released because of unjust convictions.
*3 The iniquitous contract labor law of
another Southern State, Georgia, is being
attacked in the courts. A colored girl
of fourteen signed a contract to pick cot-
ton and was alleged to have received $7
advance in wages. She refused to con-
tinue at work and was fined $75 and costs
or twelve months in the chain gang. Her
mother is now suing for her release in
the United States District Court.
•3 In Green County, Ga., a white boy
and a colored boy got into a fight and
the white boy was struck on the bead
with a stone. A mob thereupon chased
the colored boy to his home and the boy
shot one of them. He was thereupon
convicted of murder by the court, but
recently the Supreme Court has reversed
the decision, the judge declaring “it
would be folly to speak of the equality of
all men before the law if we should
allow this conviction to stand. We
would have to write racial exception into
the section of the code whicl\ provides
that it shall be justifiable to shoot and
even kill to prevent forcible attack and
invasion upon the property of habi-
tation.”
A colored man has been awarded
$5,000 for injury to eyesight in a North
Carolina court.
*3 The Tennessee Court of Appeals has
enjoined colored persons from using the
name “Knights of Pythias” or badges or
symbols of the order.
®3 Mr. W. Ashbie Hawkins, of Baltimore,
has arraigned the Baltimore, Chesapeake
and Atlantic Railway before the Public
Service Commission for discrimination
against public passengers.
<1 Dr. W. Ross, of Denver, Col., brought
suit against a theatre for refusing to sell
him orchestra seats. When the case was
brought before the County Court he was
refused redress. Later, however, when
his wife was ordered to the rear in a
moving-picture theatre. Mr. Ross secured
a judgment of $500 against the pro-
prietors.
<3 A Circuit Court of Ohio has just ren-
dered a decision which is of interest. Mr.
Harry E. Davis instituted a suit against
the Euclid Avenue Garden Theatre for
their refusal to sell tickets to a perform-
ance. The Ohio Civil Rights Act pro-
vides both a civil and a criminal remedy
for discrimination in the places of public
accommodation and amusement with the
additional proviso “that a judgment in
favor of the party aggrieved of punish-
ment upon an indictment shall be a .bar
to either prosecution respectively.”
Under this statute the ticket agent was
arrested and convicted in police court,
while a civil action was instituted against
the principal in the Common Pleas Court.
It was contended by the defendant that
the conviction of the agent was a bar to
the prosecution of the civil action against
the principal. The Common Pleas Court
entertained this view and directed a ver-
dict. for the defendant.
The plaintiff prosecuted error to the
Circuit Court, where the judgment was
reversed and case remanded. The Cir-
cuit Court decided distinctly that the
conviction of the agent criminally did
not operate as a bar to the prosecution
of civil action against principal.
<J In the Passaic (N. J.) District Court
Judge Cabell gave a judgment of $500
and costs to Mrs. Minerva Miller, who
sued a Paterson showhouse for trying
to make her pay 25 cents because she
was a colored woman. The case is said
to be one of the most dramatic ever tried
in Passaic.
*3 W. r Shepard, owner of one of the
largest lumber mills in Alabama, has
ALONG THE COLOR LINE	101
been arrested for peonage on complaint
of a colored man named Orr. Orr, it
is said, swore out the warrants for
the arrest of Shepard after making his
escape from the mill, coming at once to
Montgomery, where he gave the infor-
mation leading to the arrest to United
States District Attorney Warren S.
Reese.
According to the story of the Negro,
he was operating a soft-drink stand in
Foley when Windham, with Shepard ac-
companying him, asked him to go to
work at the mill, whereupon, he says,
Windham beat him severely in Shepard’s
presence and made him agree to work
at the mill. Orr stayed at the mill about
four hours, according to his statement,
and then made his escape.
This alleged offense is said to have
been committed within the past week, but
the Negro also told of another similar
one which took place in a small town
near Foley. He claimed he was operat-
ing a dray line there when certain white
men beat him up and took his license
away from him, destroying it and de-
manding that he leave the place.
The preliminary hearing of the case
will be before United States Commis-
sioner Tutwiler at Dothan, and if the two
men are bound over, the trial will be held
in Montgomery, as being nearest to the
place where the offense was committed.
President Shepard is one of the best-
known lumbermen in the State, his mill
being recognized as second in size in
Alabama.
LYNCHING.
Miss Celia Thomas, who shot a young
white man who invaded her home, has
been convicted of murder and sentenced
to life imprisonment at Marietta, Ga.
<3 The following lynchings have taken
place since our last record:
At Mansfield, Okla., a Negro has been
lynched and a small race war precipi-
tated. The Negro was accused of killing
a white man.
At Valliant, Okla., a Negro accused of
attacking a girl was lynched. He refused
to give his name.
At Lockhart, Miss., a Negro accused of
beating a prominent white citizen is sup-
posed to have been lynched.
Two astonishing versions of the same
crime come from Tennessee. The first
dispatch said that two colored men and
a woman were burned to death by a mob
of white land tenants who object to the
occupancy of land by Negroes, near
Savannah, Tenn. The three Negroes were
traveling to a gin with a load of seed
cotton. They were waylaid and tied to
the wagonload of cotton, it is said,
and the mob. after building a fire beneath
the wagon, stood guard until the
Negroes were cremated.
The next dispatch said that the victims
were Ben Pettigrew and his two young
daughters. That Pettigrew was an hon-
est and trustworthy man, and was driv-
ing a load of cotton from his farm to
Savannah. On the road a few miles from
his place four white men appeared and
shot him to death as he sat in the seat
of his wagon. Then they dragged his
two daughters from the top of the load
and hanged them to a nearby tree. While
their bodies dangled from a limb the
slayers drove the load of cotton under
them and set fire to it.
<] A most extraordinary case of lynching
is reported from Georgia.
The first dispatch said that T. W.
Walker, a colored man, killed C. S. Hol-
linshead, a wealthy planter, of Washing-
ton, Ga., for no apparent reason. A
Northern colored paper published a cir-
cumstantial account, declaring • that the
real reason was that the white man had
brutally attacked the colored man’s wife.
The white people attempted to lynch
Walker, but were so drunk that Walker
escaped. A colored editor in Atlanta
published the charge against Hollinshead
and was immediately arrested for libel.
The Georgia law declares that the truth
is libel if it incites to violence. Mean-
time Walker was caught again after the
time for his execution had expired. He
again escaped. He was captured a sec-
ond time and immediately resentenced to
instant execution. Before he could be
taken from the courtroom a brother of
Hollinshead shot him. While severely
wounded he was hanged. The court
announced that the brother would not be
prosecuted and Pinkerton detectives are
at present persecuting the Chicago paper.
A mob in Gatesville, Tex., has burned
a colored schoolhouse because a colored
man stabbed a white man.
<3 A Negro farmer in Florida has killed
a white man who disputed his claim to a
farm.
<3 White people in Conway, S. C., have
driven out a colored preacher who owned
several hundred acres of land and was
one of the leaders in the community.
They charged him with arousing preju-
dice against white people.
AFRICA.
Tripoli, over which Turkey and Italy
are fighting, has about 1,000,000 inhab-
itants, consisting of Arabs, Moors, Jews,
Negroes and a few Europeans. The
yearly exports are worth about $2,000,-
000. The city of Tripoli has 25,000 in-
habitants and the religion of the country
is Mohammedanism.
MEN OF THE
MONTH

GENEEAL CINClSS^CL CONTE
President of the Republic of Hayti.
C.	H. TURNER.
Mr. C. H. Turner of St. Louis, was
recently elected a member of the Acad-
emy of Science in that city, an honor
that would not be bestowed on a colored
man in Missouri if it were not excep-
CHARLES H. TURNER, Ph.D.
wc.1 ueservec. ;ui. iiiiuci Htt.
ndeed, been a research student in biolog,
ever since receiving his first degree, an
has contributed valuable papers to th
leading scientific journals.
He was born in Cincinnati, O., i>
1867, and attended the public schools o
that city. He received the bachelor
degree in 1891 from the University o
Cincinnati and the degree of master o
science from the same institution in 1892
In 1907 he received from the University
of Chicago the degree of doctor o
philosophy, magna cum laude. His pro
fessional career has been as follows:
1891-1S92, assistant in biology, Univer
sity of Cincinnati: 1892-1905, head of th<
science department and professor o
biology at Clark Univerity, South Atlan
ta, Ga.; 1905-1906, principal of Colleg<
Hill School, Cleveland, Tcnn.; 1906-1907
graduate student, University of Chicago
1907-1908, instructor in biology and chem-

MEN OF THE MONTH
103
istry, Haines Normal School; since 1908,
instructor in biology, Sumner High
School, St. Louis, Mo.
The election to the St. Louis Academy
is not the first honor to fall to Mr.
Turner. In 1907 he was a delegate to
the Seventh International Zoological
Congress, where, in addition to reading a
paper, service was rendered as one of the
assistant secretaries of the section of ani-
mal behavior. He is also an honorary
member of the Illinois Academy of
Science and a member of the Entomolo-
gical Society of America. The Academy
of Science of St. Louis, it may be added,
was organized in 1856 for the purpose of
stimulating scientific research in that sec-
tion of the country. It now owns its own
building, which contains, in addition to
assembly rooms and office rooms, a good
research library and the beginning of a
museum. The society publishes a journal
and enrolls among its members the lead-
ing scientists of that portion of the State.
It has honorary members in all parts of
the world.
DR. L. A. LEWIS.
On April 3 of this year the City Board
of Health of Indianapolis conducted a
competitive examination to select in-
ternes for the city hospital during the
ensuing year. There were fifteen appli-
cants, one of them colored. The colored
man made the highest record, reaching
over 92 per cent. In the month of August
there was another examination, this time
for licenses to practice medicine in the
State, and there were 107 applicants,
again with only the one colored man.
Again he stood at the head of the list,
with 947 points out of a possible 1,000.
The man next to him had 904.
The young colored man was Lawrence
EDWARD WILMOT BLYDEN
LAWRENCE ALDRIDGE LEWIS
Aldridge Lewis, a native of Greenville,
Miss., where he was born in 1888. ^ He
went through the public schools of his
town, and in 1902 entered Knoxville Col-
lege. He was going through the colle-
giate department when his family left
that part of the country “through one
of those very frequent happenings in
our South which necessitates a change
of residence.” says Mr. Lewis. The
young man thereupon decided to carry
out his great desire to study medicine
and entered the medical department of
the University of Indiana in 1907. That
he improved his time there is sufficiently
evident. We wish Dr. Lewis all the
success he so' well deserves.
EDWARD WILMOT BLYDEN.
Dr. Edward Wilmot Blyden, who is
the leading representative of his race in
West Africa, and who celebrates his
eightieth birthday this year, was born
in the Danish West Indies. He lived a
while in the United States, but went to
Liberia in 1851. He held many positions
of honor and trust, being secretary of
state, secretary of the interior and min-
ister to England. Afterward he moved
to Sierra Leone. His chief fame has
come from his scholarship and his writ-
ings. “Christianity, Islam and the
Negro Race” is his best-known work.
Dr. Blyden is an Arabic scholar of dis-
tinction and is a firm believer in “Africa
for the Africans.”
THE CENSUS.
The census figures, which show large
increase among Negro Americans but a
smaller rate of increase than among
whites, have formed the text of numer-
ous editorials. The general feeling is
that they expose so thoroughly the fal-
lacy of the “Negro domination bugaboo”
that the arguments for disfranchisement
and oppression have lost weight. The
Boston Traveller advises “Southern
negrophobes” to study the figures and
profit thereby. The Baltimore News
says: “Though the voter may forget the
exact figures, he should tuck away in his
memory the definite lesson these statis-
tics teach. The old bugaboo will creep
up again, of course. But it should never
again be allowed to overshadow the
issues, to divert attention from which it
is so constantly brought forward. Still
less should it be accepted as a reason for
permitting the Wilson ballot law to
remain longer in force.”
The Philadelphia Public Ledger ob-
serves: “The Negro ‘bugaboo’ very gen-
erally has lost or is losing its terrors.
South of us it still does yeoman service
as a political slogan. It is Democracy’s
standard shibboleth in Maryland, for
instance, and Tuesday’s results would
indicate that even there, what Charles J.
Bonaparte ridicules as the ‘perennial cry
of Nigger! Nigger! Nigger!’ has lost its
effect on a majority of the electorate.
What Negro problem there is is scientific
and economic. Just now it has chiefly to
do with providing more widely opened
doors of industrial opportunity, so that
wage earners among them may secure
better homes, in more fit environment,
for these ten millions of Americans.
Given opportunity, the Negro himself
will solve whatever problem there is.”
Moreover, according to the Muncie
(Ind.) Star, “the South seems on the
eve of large influx of inhabitants from
Europe and from the North. The buga-
boo of Negro domination has seen its
best days. Before long the South will
be able to discuss political principles on
their merits and vote accordingly, as is
done at the North.”
Some papers explain the decrease in
the Negro birth rate. “The probable
explanation,” says the Boston Tran-
script, “is that as the Negroes find
themselves more and more dependent on
themselves for support, the same eco-
nomic reasons that affect higher races
checking the
are not without influence in
growth of families. The Negroes are
still a primitive people in many of their
ways of life and thought, but among
them are to be found cultivated men and
women who, after the manner of their
kind of all races, are sensible of tbeir
responsibility to their progeny. All of
which goes to show that causes in part
economic and in part natural are at work
to relegate the color problem to the
category of questions time may be left
to solve.”
The Buffalo Express says Negroes
have never dominated the South numer-
ically and never will. “They never have
sought to dominate politically, nor would
it be possible for them to do so even if
they were allowed the full citizen rights
to which they arc entitled. The most
they could do would be to control a few
sections where they congregate by them-
selves and where very few white people
live or would care to live. This would
be merely the exercise of local self-rule
which ought to be freely granted to all
American communities.”
The Roanoke World thinks some peo-
ple will be disappointed that the decrease
is not greater.
“Several months ago a well-known pro-
fessor announced that the Negro prob-
lem would settle itself. He said that
the excess of the race’s death rate over
birth rate gave assurance that in the
course of a certain number of years
America would be free from its most dis-
tressing burden. When the professor
reads the report of the United States
Census Bureau showing a substantial
increase of Negro population he will be
sorely astounded. Ever since the Civil
War theories similar to his have made
their appearance. The professor, and
others who have thought like him, will
have to overhaul their views. Seeing
that the staying qualities of the black
race are much in evidence, they must
study out some other remedy. They
must go to schools of segregation, expor-
tation, annihilation and education, each
of which has strong and earnest advo-
cates.
The Danville (Va.) Register strikes
a new note in hoping that “as the
OPINION
105
Negroes become fewer in proportion to
the whole population they gradually
become less and less assertive and
offensive and more submissive to author-
ity and measure up more and more
nearly to the standard of the whites in
intelligence, in subservience to authority
and in industry and frugality," while the
American Economist thinks that if the
Negro question were eliminated in the
South "there is no doubt that there
would be a great increase in the vote for
a protective tariff."
THE LYNCHING PROTEST.
The meeting called by the National
Association to protest against lynching
was widely reported by the press and
was commented on by a number of
Southern newspapers. There is, as usual,
a tendency on their part to observe that
people in glass houses should not throw
stones, and to assume that the associa-
tion exists to find fault with the South
and neglects to protest against injustice
in New York. Says the Charlotte (N. C.)
Observer: "The conditions in the South
are bad, very bad, but they are better
than they were some years ago, and the
conditions were brought about by the
North when it was saving the South
before. That does not excuse the South,
of course, for the crimes that have been
committed in the South; but it ought to
make the North rather careful in going
into another battle to the further injury
of the Negro. ‘A little while ago,’ said
the grim-visaged Holmes, ‘the crimes are
confined to the Southern States: now no
commonwealth from Pennsylvania to
Oregon and from Massachusetts to Mis-
sissippi is free from the crime of lynch-
ing.’ * If this be true, and there is no
doubt that it is true, the investigation
that is proposed by the N. A. A. of C. P.
should not be made sectional in its pur-
poses but national in scope. It would
probably be found that lynching in
Massachusetts is not very different from
lynching in Mississippi in its causes, and
that it is to be condemned wherever it
occurs and should be put down by the
strong hand of the law."
The Meridian (Miss.) Dispatch: "As
a rule lynchings are wrong and ought to
be ended. There may be occasions
where the unwritten law justifies it, but
the law-abiding Negro has nothing to
fear either in the South or other sections
and it is not true that ‘the American peo-
ple are the most lawless people in the
civilized world.”
The Raleigh (N. C.) News-Observer
adds: "Lynching is a crime and a blot
wherever it is permitted. The best
Southern sentiment as to lynching was
expressed the other day when Governor
Gilchrist, of Florida, took extraordinary
measures to prevent a lynching in his
State. There is no sectionalism in lynch-
ing bad Negroes, Illinois and Pennsyl-
vania having shown more brutality and
barbarism in their last lynchings and
burnings than any Southern State.”
The Charlotte (N. C.) News thinks
that "it is rather strange that the mem-
bers of the Association for the Advance-
ment of Colored People managed to
overlook the iniquities of Gotham in
their salvation crusade. A few lynchings
occur in the South and both races
deplore them—that is, the better class of
both races. But in New York crimes of
similar depravity are daily incidents.
Here is a lot of purblind sectional
reformers prodding the South about its
lynching record, while in the city of
New York crimes far more cowardly are
committed daily under their very noses.
Scarcely a day passes that some black-
hand outrage is not reported. Scarcely a
day passes that some unprotected woman
is not set upon by ruffians and beaten or
killed. The criminal record of New York
has reached such an appalling stage,
heinous crimes have been so frequent,
that the best element of the city has
become aroused, and yet the members of
the Association for the Advancement of
Colored People fail to detect vice outside
of Dixie.”
This sentiment is echoed by the Jack-
sonville (Fla.) Times-Union. “Lynch-
ing is wrong and lynching is all too com-
mon in the South, but lynching is only
a form of lawlessness, and lawlessness
is common all over the country. It is as
just to charge that New York is partic-
ularly wicked because her dear crime of
smuggling is practiced by her richest and
most reputable citizens as it is to charge
that the South is especially bad because
her badness too commonly runs to lynch-
ing. And it is fair to say that the bur-
glar is not worse because his wickedness
runs to cracking cribs than the official
who may violate another law as fre-
quently and as flagrantly."
KING CHARLES’ HEAD.
The "Tu quoque” or "YouTe an-
other” form of argument, which we used
to find so unanswerable in our child-
hood, is still a favorite with a large
number of Southern logicians. This
month they dwell on it with an insist-
ence which, even for them, is unusual.
It all comes about because the Rev.
J. Cortland Meyers of Boston made a
speech in which he said that Boston isn’t
as kind to the black man as it should
be. He added that the Negro was hav-
ing in some respects a worse time in
the North than in the South. So sooner
said than a triumphant shout rolled
northward from the other side of Mason
and Dixon’s line. From a large number
of comments we choose two or three
106
THE CRISIS
The Charleston News and Courier,
always an entertaining sheet, outdoes it-
self. To the News and Courier mis-
cegenation is what King Charles' head
was to Mr. Dick—it intrudes into every
question. Mr. Meyers may not have
known it, but he was really talking
about miscegenation when he made that
speech, as the Charleston paper goes on
to prove. “Why is it,” it asks, “that
Boston will not have the Negro in white
neighborhoods? Why is it that Altoona
and Coatesville and New York want to
get rid of the Negro or put him in a sec-
tion by himself? Ask Professor Boas,
the distinguished anthropologist, who
avers that miscegenation is the solution
of the problem, and that it will not be
disastrous because the woman in the
case is always a Negress, an argument
so senseless, we may observe, that it
shakes one’s faith in anthropology itself.
We do not mean that it is senseless be-
cause his fact is wrong, for it is not,
but because a mongrel race is a mongrel
race whether all the black blood comes
from one sex or not. Ask the editor of
the New York Evening Post and his
Negro assistant, and some of the other
persons who advocate miscegenation.
They know, just as the people of Boston
know. When a Negro is a graduate of
Harvard, where does he look for a wife?
When a Negro is a champion pugilist
of the world, where does he look for
a wife? Where are the eyes of all these
Negro Northerners turned? The white
fathers of white girls in the North can
answer the question. They know why
they want Negroes confined to one sec-
tion. “In the South,’* concludes the
News and Courier, “it is different. The
Negro is not wheedled into believing
that he is an acceptable suitor for white
girls.”
However, the Macon Telegraph thinks
the News and Courier “verges toward
extravagance.” It thinks that there are
not a great many marriages between the
races in the North and fancies that
among white fathers in that section “not
one in ten thousand” is expecting from
Negroes propositions for his daughter’s
hand. As to Professor Boas and the edi-
tor of the Evening Post, why pay atten-
tion to “the neglected vaporings of a
few cranks?”
The Athens (Ga.) Banner joins in
to observe that it agrees in the main
with the Telegraph. The News and
Courier is “needlessly exercised over a
few idle vaporings.” The Banner thinks
Northerners look on the Negro “as other
people do”—here the editor is not quite
so specific as we could wish—but it is
surprised that they use the black man
“for political purposes.” It concludes:
“Why can’t the people of the North ac-
knowledge the facts and say to the world
that the South understands the problem
better than any other section, handles it
better, and gives the Negro a better
chance than any other people in the
world give him?”
Of course none of the editors of these
journals have read either Professor
Boas’ book, which states in a purely
scientific way that the results of mar-
riage between different races is not likely
to be physically undesirable, or the Eve-
ning Post, which never said anything
about the matter. But that is the great
advantage of editing the News and
Courier and similar papers—you don’t
have to go through the vulgar process of
knowing what you’re talking about.
THE CHILD AND THE ESSAY.
Mr. Eugene Wood writes in the so-
cialist daily Call: “It may be,” he says,
“that I don’t understand the race
problem in America very well. I
know that I don’t understand it as well
as some, for they have told me that
nobody could understand the Negro as
well as they do who have been brought
up with them. But I wouldn’t want to
understand a thing so well that I could
never learn anything about it from any-
body. . Again, I am not a member of
the race that makes the problem. I am
a white man, and so cannot understand
how it feels to be made to take a back
seat in the street car while some
drunken, pimple-faced loafer can have
the best seat. I ought to be proud of
being a white man, and so I am, when
I consider the wonderful things the
white man has done. But when I con-
sider the way the white man has acted
toward the Negro I feel kind of sheep-
ish and hangdog.
“Let me be ever so big feeling, I
want to crawl off somewhere when I
think of something I read in the news-
paper about a prize competition in a
city in that part of this country, which,
now that the bad place has gone out
of business, is the only locality now
known where burning human beings
alive is the custom of the country. The
children of -the public schools were to
write essays, but not to sign them with
their own names. In that way the
judges would be perfectly fair and de-
cide the merits of each essay, regard-
less of family connection. One essay
was easily first. It undoubtedly should
have the prize, so the judges said. But,
come to find out, it was a little Negro
girl had written it. Oh, then, of course,
she couldn’t have the prize. So they
gave it to the second best essay, making
sure first that it was a white child who
wrote it.
“Now, I can’t feel very proud of my
race for that low-down, contemptible
trick. I can’t help thinking how that
little Negro girl must have felt. I can’t
OPINION
107
help thinking how her people must have
felt, how proud of her, and how bitter
at the mean, sneaking whelps that would
cheat a child out of the honor that was
rightly hers. When the only way we
whites can hold our own is by stealing
from the children, we’re in a bad way,
I must say.
“But there’s more than mere injustice
in the cruelties and insults that the
white man has heaped upon the Negro.
There’s fear. I’ll say that again in case
you didn’t get the .full benefit of it.
There’s fear! Did you get it that time?
“Let's see, how long -is it since the
Negro was emancipated? Well, call it
fifty years. Fifty years ago the Negro
in the Southern States was a human
being held forcibly in the condition of
a beast. Yet in the fifty years since
then, look how the Negro has arisen.
Never was anything like it in the history
of the world.”
A COLORED REGIMENT.
The Twenty-fourth Regiment of
Infantry has been ordered to the Philip-
pines from the barracks in New York
State where they have been stationed for
five years. The local paper, the Water-
town Times, pays them a warm trib-
ute. “They came soon after the Browns-
ville affair,” it says, “and there was nat-
urally some nervousness over their com-
ing. A Negro regiment had never been
quartered at Madison Barracks. On the
departure of the Twenty-fourth, after
nearly five years of residence amongst
us, it can be said that rio regiment ever
stationed at Madison Barracks has given
so tittle trouble or behaved itself so
well.
“The Negro soldier has great pride in
his uniform and great pride in his regi-
ment. It is not a temporary occupation
with him. but a life business. Therefore,
it is a veteran regiment, slowly taking
raw recruits which are generally most
responsible for violations of discipline,
and the veterans are all well-disciplined
men. They have minded their own busi-
ness, and their white neighbors have
minded theirs, and there has been only
one case of friction, in the early days,
which was doubtless based on a false
rumor and from which investigation
entirely exonerated the regiment.
“The Twenty-fourth has a proud rec-
ord in Cuba and the Philippines as being
one of the best fighting regiments in the
army. Its men have carried themselves
well’ while here, with becoming dignity
as soldiers, and their long service has
taken out all the traditional Negro irre-
sponsibility from them. They are self-
controlled, self-respecting, brave and
honorable men, and have so behaved
themselves during their stay in this sec-
tion as to win the respect of the white
population. The experiment has been an
entire success. A Negro regiment has
been able to live in peace and harmony
and be re >ected in a Northern post.”
EDUCATION IN THE SOUTH.
The Southern Educational Association
which held its annual meeting in Hous-
ton. Texas, sent out a preliminary mani-
festo in the course of which it says:
“Hundreds of thousands of boys and
girls who live in the mountains of the
South have no educational advantages.
They can and must be trained into good
productive citizens.
"Thousands of Southern children are
wearing their lives awray in factories,
where they are denied the inalienable
rights of the young—air, sunlight, play
and training.
“There are millions of Negroes in the
South who are ignorant, superstitious,
disease-breeding, unproducing and so a
menace to society. The present state of
Negro education promises to continue
this deplorable condition. If it is so
continued, the whites will suffer even
more than the Negroes. The meager
and often misdirected education which
the Negroes are getting is admittedly
opposed to their own interests and to
the welfare of the section in which they
reside. We may differ concerning the
character of training that should be given
the Negro, but we all realize that the
condition is bad, that the question is a
serious one and that only harm can re-
sult from our ignoring it. The Negro
must be better educated—in the true
meaning of the term. It is folly to argue
otherwise. He must be trained for his
environment—must be taught how to live
morally and hygienically. His education
should be industrial and not literary and
cultural.”
THE BLACK MAN’S VALUE.
The Indianapolis News, like many
other papers, thinks the Oklahoma at-
tempt to make the State altogether a
white man’s country is likely to result
in disaster. “The Negro unfortunately
has generally attracted attention as part
of the white man’s load. He gains the
notoriety in his worst role. And in
that role we see the individual rather
than the race. It suffers in reputation
exactly as American citizens do in the
eyes of a world which only sees and
measures us by the one grafter in
thousands of good officials. . When we
look at the Negro in a fairer and
broader sense we find that he is a
great economic factor under the condi-
tions that have been created in this
country. Without him the South would
be seriously crippled: for the lack of
him in larger numbers we in the North
108
THE
CRISIS
have to open our ports to the lowest
types of Southern Europeans. Canada
recently had the question of Negro im-
migration before parliament. What if
that parliament had decided to go into
our Southern States and promote immi-
gration of Negroes to the extent of one
million to develop her waste places?
The South would have been thrown
into a panic and we might have lodged,
as a nation, protest against such an
invasion and tampering with our econo-
mic balance. Or if the Negroes them-
selves should withdraw from any
Northern city, what would be the
effect?”
The Antonio (Tex.) Express thinks
that Oklahoma is making financial dis-
aster for herself by her efforts to drive
out Negroes. “For Oklahoma to con-
tinue her seeming present policy of ban-
ishing the black man from her territory
is attempting something which hereto-
fore has been unheard of in the cotton
belt. For years farm labor has been
growing more scarce, and wages have
been growing higher. Has Oklahoma a
white-man solution for a condition which
must result in a farming State if ulti-
mately the black man shall be driven
beyond its borders?”
And the New York Commercial adds:
“The South cannot do without her Ne-
groes. No other race of laborers under
the sun can produce the results that the
Negroes do in that great region. The ex-
periment has failed time and again.”
<J The Atlanta Constitution prints a
letter from Mrs. Anna M. Tate, a col-
ored woman, and comments: “Strength
and pathos blend in the communication
in which she outlines the conditions
making for criminality and disintegra-
tion among her race, and pleads with
the white people for aid in neutralizing
both. Punishment, as meted out to the
young Negro in the form of stockade
sentences, is, according to her, simply
opening the door to the penitentiary.
It brands the victim. It makes him
callous. It is apt to place his feet
permanently in the path of outlawry, a
penalty for which our white society
must, in the long run, pay the cost.
In amusements that refresh and that
uplift, she declares, the Negro is fatally
deficient. Of training that will fit him
to be of use to himself and to the white
race there is an appalling scarcity. She
says the great body of respectable Ne-
groes are fast drifting into a condition
of despair over a situation that opens
to their children no door of hope, and
that seems to beckon ever downward
and not upward.
“Hundreds of thousands of Negroes
feel as does this Negro woman. They
see racial deterioration setting in. They
feel the walls closing around them.
They have not the resources or the
initiative to help themselves, to push
the walls back. The ministers of At-
lanta ought to read the communication
through. The outright and entirely can-
did words of this Negro woman ought
to bring home to them a sense of
personal responsibility which will hasten
their efforts to loosen a definite and.
above all, a persistent propaganda.”
9 The St. Luke Herald, colored, tells a
little fable: “A friend of ours had a cat
and a dog. For months the dog worried,
chased and fought the cat. The cat was
in continual terror of the dog and spent
hours daily, up trees, on the fence and
on the shed roof trying to keep out of
the dog’s reach. Not long ago, as the
cat was hurry-scurrying, with the dog
yelping in hot pursuit, a funny incident
happened. Suddenly the much persecut-
ed cat whirled around and faced the dog.-
With bristling back, distended eyes and
outstretched claws she stood her ground
and faced her pursuer. The dog almost
ran over himself in his attempt to stop.
The cat stood her ground and defied him
by look and demeanor; and the dog who
had been chasing her for months, who
had worried and tormented her day in
and day out, slunk cowardly away.
“Most of our troubles are magnified;
the cat had magnified the dog in her
fear and in her flight; but when she
ceased to run from him, turned about
and faced him, looked him in the eye
with defiance and was ready to fight him
—her troubles- took feet and walked
away.”
In the National Review of London,
for October, Mr. A. Maurice Low com-
ments on the Coatesville outrage: “An
affair of unparalleled atrocity, that re-
veals the savage and undisciplined
character of the American and the con-
tempt in which he holds law. *	* *
The law would have dealt with him
justly, but that defiance of authority
which is the basis of American charac-
ter, the hatred of the Negro, and the
knowledge that there is little risk in
lynching a Negro swept all restraint
aside.”
<3 Ex-Governor W. J. Northen of
Georgia made a plea for the education
of the Negro. Mr. Northen is not very
radical on the question, but he thinks the
black man is. hardly getting fair treat-
ment. In the course of his address he
said: “During my recent canvass over
the State, in the interest of law and
order, I was amazed to find scores and
hundreds of men who believed the Negro
to be a brute, without responsibility to
God, and his slaughter nothing more
than the killing of a dog.”
By a most unfortunate omission the
paragraph reporting Mr. John Haynes
Holmes’ splendid address on lynching at
the Ethical Culture meeting house was
not printed in our last issue.
Mr. Holmes said among other things:
HOLMES ON LYNCHING.
“The trouble is, my friends, that to-
day, exactly as sixty or seventy years
ago, the American people, and mainly the
people of the South, refuse to believe
that the black man is to be regarded and
treated as a man. The fact is that the
spirit which made the institution of
slavery possible still remains in the
minds of thousands and thousands of
white men and women of the North as
well as of the South. We still believe
that the black man is an inferior sort
of man, but we refuse to dignify him
with the name of man at all, and that
being the case lynching is as inevitable
as the shooting of a dog running along
the street when the cry of ‘mad dog’ is
lifted through the air.
“Take the Oklahoma lynching. The
only thing that I could think of as I
glanced at this picture was a photograph
I had seen of huntsmen returning with
the animal which had been shot, proud
of the achievement of their marksmen-
ship. 1 believe that the same spirit which
makes possible the photograph of the
men gathered around the moose or the
deer which has been shot makes possible
the photograph of the Negro shot to
death in Oklahoma. In both cases the
huntsmen are proud that they have shot
an animal, and therefore they stand be-
fore the camera in order that the evi-
dence of the story may be sure. In
other words, this is another expression
of the lawlessness of the American
people.
“In this same period which is disgraced
by this evil crime, we find that laws have
been passed refusing the ballot to the
black man. We find Jim Crow .cars; we
find laws prohibiting Negro men and
women entering public libraries, muse-
ums, parks and theatres. We find the
denial to the black man and woman of
the right of education. We find in this
same period the spirit of antagonism
everywhere, and lynching is only one of
the half dozen or dozen symptoms of
the old disease which well-nigh destroyed
our Republic in the days before the war.
“Now, that being a diagnosis of the
case—lynching, burning and Jim Crow
cars being but an expression of the con-
viction of many of our so-called civilized
fellow citizens that the Negro is not even
a man—that being a diagnosis of the
case, the remedy is perfectly simple. The
remedy, to my mind, is not the remedy
of teaching the American people to be
a law-abiding people, although that may
contribute to the result. It is not re-
storing in the minds of the American
people a sense of justice. The only
remedy which will really work the cure,
the only thing which will really restore
the black man to his place of equality
and privilege with his white brethren, is
the renewal in the same spirit of the same
battle that was fought successfully fifty
years ago for the freedom of the black
man from the chains of slavery. In other
words, I believe that the time has come
when that great battle must be begun
again, that the hour has struck when the
North must do its duty. The time has
come when we must once again go up
and down the length and breadth of this
great Republic and preach to the four
winds of heaven and to the souls of all
who will listen, and to those who will
not listen, that the Negro is a man, a
child of God, dowered with all the rights,
powers, capacities and abilities of any
man upon the earth; that he is entitled
to everything that God has given the
sons of earth, and to all the privileges
that are showered by this Republic upon
the great body of its citizenship. The
time has come once again in these North-
ern States when the brave, silent and
lonely man must work by day and sleep
by night in his little printing office, turn-
ing out day after day the pages of ‘The
Liberator,’ to be scattered over the coun-
try. The time has come when up and
down the land there must go. like
Wendell Phillips, the silver-tongued ora-
tor who would speak in behalf of justice,
liberty and truth, and pour out the vials'
of his perfect and divine wrath upon
the heads of all who refuse to give justice
to their fellows. The time has come
when the American pulpit must be sancti-
fied by the holy presence of such a man
as Theodore Parker. Parker said that
the pulpit of his church could be con-
Printed in German/.
no
This
Spa™ For Writing Messes
the crisis
Bev. j0}lI1 K> Holmes,
astor Unitarian Churoh
'rhis side for
e Address
me. HOLMES FEOM ALABAMA
THE N. A. A. C. P.
sccrated to no higher thing than the
liberation of the black man. We must
proclaim to our Southern brothers that
we propose some day or other that the
advantages we lost shall be redeemed,
that public institutions shall be opened to
all who are men; that we shall declare,
upon the amendments that now stand in
our Constitution, that the right of ballot
shall be exercised by every man, be he
black or white; that we shall declare
that all men are free and equal, black or
white, rich or poor, high or low, of what-
ever race or class or nation of men; that
we are all brothers and shall be treated
alike.
“This whole crime of lynching, to my
mind, can never be solved by half-way
measures. Men must have strength and
courage. Poets must sing. Prophets
must speak. An Emancipation Proclama-
tion must be written. Chains and fetters
must be broken asunder. Again, as so
many, many times before, the battle for
liberty must be fought over and over
and over until the promised vision of the
poet shall indeed be seen, and men of all
colors, of all classes, of all conditions,
shall come from the East and from the
West, from the North and from the
South, and they shall all sit down
together around the one board as mem-
bers and brothers of the one great king-
dom of the living God.”
As a result of this meeting an anti-
lynching fund is being raised and an
investigator is already in the field. We
promise our readers to print in the Feb-
ruary Crisis one of the most astonishing
stories yet come,to light in relation to
the murder of untried black criminals.
On the night of NoveYnber 29 there
was held in historic Plymouth Church,
Brooklyn, on the platform made famous
by Henry Ward Beecher, a meeting com-
memorating the one hundredth anniver-
sary of the birth of Wendell Phillips.
There was stirring singing of abolition
songs, an introductory speech by Dr.
Newell Dwight Hillis, who presided, an
appeal for the National Association for
the Advancement of Colored People by
John Haynes Holmes, and then the
speakers of the evening.
Charles Edward Russell gave a most
impressive oration, which linked the
cause of abolition of yesterday to the
burning social and economic questions
of the day.
The Rev. Reverdy Ransom was at his
best, and we cannot forbear from quoting
some of his words:
RANSOM ON PHILLIPS.
“One of the chief distinctions Wendell
Phillips justly earned and so well
deserved was to be called an 'agitator.'
“'Agitation.' said he. ‘is an old word
with a new meaning. Sir Robert Peel
defined it to be “the marshaling of the
conscience of a nation to mold its laws.”
1 I 1
Its means are reason and argument; no
appeal to arms. Eternal vigilance is the
price of liberty; power is ever stealing
from the many to the few. Only by con-
tinual oversight can the Democrat in
office be prevented from hardening into a
despot; only by unintermitted agitation
can a people be kept sufficiently awake to
principle not to let liberty be smothered
in material prosperity. Republics exist
only on the terms of being constantly
agitated. Never, to our latest posterity,
can we do without prophets like Garrison,
to stir up the monotony of wealth and
reawake the people to the great ideas
that are constantly fading out of our
minds—to trouDle the waters that there
may be health in their How.’
*	* *	* *
*’I voice	the	sentiments	of	millions	of
our race when l take the liberty to use
the rostrum of Plymouth Church as a
megaphone to-night to say to the Ameri-
can people that the Negro wants neither
the money nor the sympathy of those
who do not believe in his equality of
manhood and who do not accord to him
the same political rights, the same educa-
tional advantages, and the same freedom
in every pathway of opportunity. He is
neither ungrateful nor unresponsive, but
having been so often plundered and
betrayed, he prefers to stand and mark
time rather than follow the leadership
of men, organizations or parties, the
genuineness of whose credentials he has
not thoroughly examined and the un-
rightness of whose motive's has not been
clearly disclosed. The traitors within the
ranks of our race are known. They have
neither our confidence nor our hearts.
What standing they have is due to the
powerful support which is given them by
misguided men of great wealth, by politi-
cians, who for personal or partisan
advantage would use them to profit by
the vanishing remnants of the Negro's
political power, and by a newspaper press
whose approving voice is the mouthpiece
of a decadent public opinion, which would
let the " Negro question 'work itself out’
under the baneful influence of the many
degrading forms of Jim Crowism.
* * * * *
“In the face of this systematic cam-
paign, the North has stood by with its
old antebellum attitude of concession
and compromise, while the South,
through these means and an obliging
United States Supreme Court, has re-
gained practically all it lost upon the field
of battle. Under slavery the South
counted threejfifths of the blacks in the
enumeration for representation in Con-
gress. now it counts them all: but by
unconstitutional methods excludes them
from the franchise. It has thus, under
freedom, increased its proportion of rep-
resentation in Congress over the North
bv two-fifths of the number it held under
slavery.
M2
THE CRISIS
“This question of the South’s method
of dealing with the Negro has come to be
as sacred as was the question of slavery
in the days of Mr. Phillips. To demand
the enforcement of the Fifteenth Amend-
ment to-day is to be branded as ‘an
enemy of both races,’ ‘a fanatic,’ ‘a mis-
chievous agitator.’ To all outside inter-
ference the South says: ‘Leave the Negro
to us, we understand him and know best
how to deal with him, both for his own
good and the peace and welfare of the
South.’ President Taft, who has boldly
committed himself to the doctrine of race
discrimination, pipes his grand diapason
in harmony with this sentiment by
declaring that the Negro ‘ought to come
and is coming more and more under the
guardianship of the South!’
“With far more justification we reply
on behalf of the Negro: Leave the
Southern white people to us. We have
lived among them for two and a half
centuries, we both know and understand
them. We have nursed their children;
built their homes, and for more than
two hundred years we have fed and
clothed them. When they took up arms
to destroy the Union in order to bind us
in perpetual chains, we did not fire their
cities with the torch, nor rise in violence
against them, but protected their prop-
erty, rheir helpless women and children.
Leave them to us. We have imbibed,
not the ideals of feudalism, but of
democracy; we are Americans filled with
the spirit of the twentieth century. Leave
them to us, and we will make the free
public school universal throughout the
South and open alike to all, without
regard to race, creed or color. We will
make free speech as safe in Mississippi
as it is in Massachusetts; we will abolish
lynching and usher in a reign of law,
of courts and juries, instead of the shot
gun, the faggot and the mob. We will
abolish peonage, elevate and protect
labor and make caoital secure. Leave
them to us, our chivalry shall know no
color line, but all womanhood shall be
protected and defended, and all citizens,
regardless of race or color, shall be per-
mitted to participate in the government
under which they live. Leave them to
us, and we will make them know their
place and keep it, under the Constitution
as amended. We will remove the last
vestige of Jim Crowism under the forms
of law, and make the places of public
necessity, convenience, recreation, and
amusement open alike to all without
respect to race or color. We will make
intelligence, character and worth, in-
stead of race and color, the sole test of
recognition and preferment for all. Thus
as North and South divided over the
Negro, so would the Negro unite them
in the only bond of union that can
stand the test of time—fraternity, jus-
tice, righteousness.”
The full text of Mr. Ransom’s speech
is on sale at this office
<1 The New York local of the N. A. A.
C. P. has opened headquarters at 268J4
West 135th Street, where all are wel-
come. It has telephone connection and
a stenographer, and it is hoped that per-
sons needing advice, defense or informa-
tion will make free use of the office.
•2 The Minneapolis Sunday Forum, an
organization of colored men, has joined
our organization and paid its fee.
OUR NEW YORK LOCAL BRANCH
<3 The Lecture Bureau of our associa-
tion is busy with its work. Lecturers
have been furnished lately as follows:
Cornell University.
Columbia University.
Socialist Local, No. 7, New York City.
Cherry Baptist Church, Philadelphia.
Bethany Baptist Church, Newark.
Lexington Avenue Y. W. C. A.,
Brooklyn.
Conference of Social Workers among
Negroes.
<1 In Boston the Phillips centenary was
celebrated by our association at Park
Street Church on November 28. Judge
Wendell' Phillips Stafford was the chief
speaker, and Mr. F. J. Garrison fur-
nished a most interesting souvenir pro-
gram with portraits and quotations. It
may be obtained at this office for ten
cents.
<3 Chicago has contributed a considera-
ble sum to our anti-lynching crusade
and is planning for a great meeting in
January.
I AM RESOLVED.
I am resolved in this New Year to
play the man—to stand straight,
look the zvorld squarely in the eye,
and walk to my work zvith no
shuffle or slouch.
I am resolved to be satisfied zvith no
treatment which ignores my man-
hood and my right to be counted as
one among men.
1 am resolved to be quiet and law
abiding, but to refuse to cringe in
body or in soul, to resent deliberate
insult, and to assert my just rights
in the face of wanton aggression.
I am resolved to defend and assert the
absolute equality of the Negro race
with any and all other human races
and its diznne right to equal and just
treatment.
I am resolved to be ready at all times
and in all places to bear zvitness
zvith pen, voice, money and deed
against the horrible crime of lynch-
ing, the shame of “Jim Crozv” leg-
islation, the injustice of all color dis-
crimination, the zvrong of disfran-
chise me nt for race or sex, the
iniquity of zvar under any circum-
stances and the deep damnation of
present methods of distributing the
zvorld*s work and wealth.
I am resolved to defend the poor and
the weak of every race and hue, and
especially to guard my mother, my
wife, my daughter and all my
darker sisters from the insults and
aggressions of zvhite men and black,
zvith the last strength of my body
and the last suffering of my soul.
For all these things. I am resolved
unflinchingly to stand, and if this
resolve cost me pain, poverty, slan-
der and even life itself, I zinll
remember the Word of the Prophet,
how he sang:
“Though Love repine and Reason
chafe,
There came a Voice, without reply,
’Tis man’s Perdition to be safe
When for the Truth he ought to
die!”
CRIME AND LYNCHING.
A FAVORITE argument with
shallow thinkers is: Stop
crime and lynching will cease,
cease. Such a statement is both his-
torically and logically false. Histori-
cally, lynching leads to lynching, burn-
ing to burning; and lynching for great
crimes to lynching for trivial offenses.
Moreover, lynching as practised to-
day in the United States is not the
result of crime—it is a cause of crime,
on account of the flagrant, awful injus-
tice it inflicts in so many cases on in-
nocent men. Take, for instance, the
story of the lynching in Florida, as
told by Governor Gilchrist. He says,
in answer to a correspondent:
“As to the ‘black brute who received
his deserts,’ I would state that I ex-
amined the evidence in this case. A
certain man, accompanied by three
others—all white—drove from a quar-
ter to a half mile from the main road
through the place of an old Negro,
using an old road. This old Negro had
five sons and sons-in-law living in his
immediate vicinity. That morning
there had been some lawsuit with one
of these Negroes, the case having been
tried at Mickosukie. The Negroes
had returned to their home. This cer-
tain man and party drove through the
old Negro’s place. The old Negro
opened the gate so they could drive
through his place, going toward the
public road. This certain man and the
others got out of their buggies and re-
the crisis
I 14
turned to the gate. This man had a
pistol in his hand, and commenced
talking to the old darkey, more or less
threatening him. All the evidence
shows, and what I have heard of him,
through white people, shows that he
was a harmless old darkey. The old
Negro ran. Shots were fired at him.
Knowing there had been a lawsuit
that day, and doubtless seeing this man
and party driving through the field,
this old Negro’s sons and sons-in-law,
on hearing the report of shots, natu-
rally came to his house. The old Negro
had a son who was sick and lying—my
recollection is—on the porch. This
man was talking to the sick son in
front of the porch with his pistol in
his hand, raising his arm up and down
apparently as though he was going to
shoot him. It appears, however, that
it was probably not the intention of
this man to shoot this darkey. In run-
ning up to the house, one of the old
man’s sons or sons-in-law, seeing this
man with the pistol in his hand, and
his arm up, shot this man in the side
under the arm. He died instantly.
This occurred within a few feet of the
cabin of the old Negro. The old
Negro and his five sons and sons-in-
law were taken to jail and were sent
to Lake City for safe keeping. A party
of lynchers, with a forged telegram
from the Governor, secured the Ne-
groes from the jail under pretext of
taking them to Jacksonville, claiming
they were protecting them from a
lynching party. The Negroes were
bound, taken out on the edge of the
town and shot to death.”
What now must be the feeling of the
Negroes thereabouts? Are they ap-
palled at their own wickedness? Do
they see that the wages of sin is
death? Not they. They despise the
white man’s justice, hate him, and
whenever they hear of Negro “crime”
in the future they will say: “It’s a
^'hite man’s lie.”
Not only this, but these people
know how criminals are made and they
pity rather than condemn them. Take,
for instance, the cries throughout the
South against “vagrants.” It means
the call for the State enslavement of
any man who does not work for a
white man at the white man’s price.
The most outrageous laws and ar-
rests are made under the excuse of
vagrancy. In Atlanta, on October 15,
thirty-seven laborers were arrested at
night in their lodging house as “va-
grants.” In Texas five laborers were
arrested as vagrants and proved their
hard, steady jobs. “But,” remarks the
Galveston Tribune chirpily:
“The State chose to prosecute under
a different portion of the law, alleg-
ing loitering about houses of ill-fame.
The court explained, as he has done
before, that a person can be a vagrant
yet be steadily employed, the law
being general in its effect and cover-
ing many points upon which a con-
viction can be had on a charge of
vagrancy.”
Suppose now a mischievous boy or
a loiterer or a laborer out of work is
thrown into jail as a vagrant, what
happens to him?
From a thousand examples, let us
choose but one from a Texas report
on a local “chain gang”:
“The day’s program was invariably
this: Up at 4 :30 o’clock in the morn-
ing, trot two to five miles to the cane
fields, work there in squads until noon,
when fifteen to twenty minutes would
be allowed for the eating of a cold
dinner; driven hard during the after-
noon and brought back by starlight at
night in the same dog trot they went
out in the morning. The weak must
keep up with the strong in his work
or be punished. Convicts slept in
their underclothes or naked, as it hap-
pened to rain or shine during the day.
If it rained they hung up their clothes
to dry and slept without. One convict
testified that he had frequently taken
his clothes from the nail frozen stiff.
One man was on a farm a year, and
during that time the bedclothes were
not washed and were sunned but
twice.”

^toijcrate criminals are menu
factured and turned out day by da;
Can we stop this by lynching? Nx
The first step toward stopping crim
is to stop lynching. The next step i
to treat black men like human being:
EDITORIAL
A MILD SUGGESTION.
THEY were sitting on the leeward
deck of the vessel and the col-
ored man was there with his
usual look of unconcern. Before the
seasickness his presence aboard had
caused some upheaval. The Woman,
for instance, glancing at the South-
erner, had refused point blank to sit
beside him at meals, so she had
changed places with the Little Old
Lady. The Westerner, who sat op-
posite, said he did not care a ----,
then he looked at the Little Old Lady,
and added in a lower voice to the New
Yorker that there was no accounting
for tastes. The Southerner from the
other table broadened his back and
tried to express with his shoulders
both ancestors and hauteur. All this,
however, was half forgotten during the
seasickness, and the Woman sat be-
side the colored man for a full half
hour before she noticed it, and then
was glad to realize that the Southerner
was too sick to see. Now again with
sunshine and smiling weather, they all
quite naturally reverted (did the
Southerner suggest it?) to the Negro
problem. The usual solutions had
been suggested: education, work, emi-
gration, etc.
They had not noticed the back of
the colored man, until the thoughtless
Westerner turned toward him and
said breezily: “Well, now, what do
you say? I guess you are rather in-
terested.The colored man was lean-
ing over the rail and about to light
his cigarette—he had several such bad
habits, as the Little Old Lady noticed.
The Southerner simply stared. Over
the face of the colored man went the
shadow of several expressions; some
the New Yorker could interpret, others
he could not.
“I have,” said the colored man, with
deliberation, “a perfect solution.” The
Southerner selected a look of disdain
from his repertoire, and assumed it.
The Woman moved nearer, but partly
turned her back. The Westerner and
the Little Old Lady sat down.
“Yes,” repeated the colored man, ”1
have a perfect solution. The trouble
with most of the solutions which are
1 15
generally suggested is that they ag-
gravate the disease.” The Southerner
could not help looking interested. *‘For
instance,” proceeded the colored man,
airily waving his hand, “take educa-
tion; education means ambition, dis-
satisfaction and revolt. You cannot
both educate people and hold them
down.”
“Then stop educating them,”
growled the Southerner aside.
“Or,” continued the colored man, “if
the black man works, he must come
into competition with whites------”
“He sure will, and it ought to be
stopped,” returned the Westerner. “It
brings down wages.”
“Precisely,” said the speaker, “and
if by underselling the labor market
he develops a few millionaires, how
now would you protect your residential
districts or your select social circles or
—your daughters?”
The Southerner started angrily, but
the colored man was continuing plac-
idly with a far-off look in his eyes.
“Now, migration is both costly and
inhuman ; the transportation would be
the smallest matter. You must buy up
perhaps a thousand millions’ worth of
Negro property; you must furnish
some capital for the masses of poor;
you must get some place for them to
go; you must protect them there, and
here you must pay not only higher
wages to white men, but still higher
on account of the labor scarcity.
Meantime, the Negroes suddenly re-
moved from one climate and social
system to another climate and utterly
new conditions would die in droves—
it would be simply prolonged murder
at enormous cost.
“Very well,” continued the colored
man, seating himself and throwing
away his cigarette, “listen to my plan.”
looking almost quizzically at the Little
Old Lady: “you must not be alarmed
at its severity—it may seem radical, but
really it is—it is—well, it is quite the
only practical thing and it has surely
one advantage: it settles the problem
once, suddenly, and forever. My plan
is this: You now outnumber us nearly
ten to one. 1 propose that on a cer-
tain date, shall we say next Christmas,
1 16	THE
or possibly Easter, 1912? No, come to
think of it, the first of January, 1913,
would, for historical reasons, prob-
ably be best. Well, then, on the first
of January, 1913, let each person who
has a colored friend invite him to
dinner. This would take care of a
few ; among such friends might be in-
cluded the black mammies and faith-
ful old servants of the South; in this
way we could get together quite a
number. Then those who have not
the pleasure of black friends might
arrange for meetings, especially in
-white’ churches and Young Men’s
and Young Women’s Christian Asso-
ciations, where Negroes are not ex-
pected. At such meetings, contrary to
custom, the black people should not be
seated by themselves, but distributed
very carefully among the whites. The
remaining Negroes who could, not
be flattered or attracted by these invi-
tations should be induced to assemble
among themselves at their own
churches or at little parties and house
warmings.
“The few stragglers, vagrants and
wanderers could be put under careful
watch and ward. Now, then, we have
the thing in shape. First, the hosts
of those invited to dine should provide
themselves with a sufficient quantity
of cyanide of potassium, placing it
carefully in the proper cups, and being
careful not to mix the cups. Those at
church and prayer meeting could
choose between long sharp stilettoes
and pistols—I should recommend the
former as less noisy. Those who guard
the colored assemblies and the strag-
glers without should carefully sur-
round the groups and use Winchesters.
Then, at a given signal, let the col-
ored folk of the United States be
CRISIS
quietly dispatched; the signal might
be a church bell or the singing of the
national hymn; probably the bell
would be best, for the diners would be
eating.”
By this time the auditors of the col-
ored man were staring; the Southerner
had forgotten to pose; the Woman
had forgotten to watch the South-
erner; the Westerner was staring with
admiration; there were tears in the
eyes of the Little Old Lady, while the
New Yorker was smiling; but the col-
ored man held up a deprecating hand:
“Now don’t prejudge my plan,” he
urged. “The next morning there
would be ten million funerals, and
therefore no Negro problem. Think
how quietly the thing would be set-
tled ; no more bother, no more argu-
ment ; the whole country united and
happy. Even the Negroes would be a
great deal happier than they are at
present. Instead of being made heirs
to hope by education, or ambitious by
wealth, or exiled invalids on the fever
coast, they would all be happily
ensconced in Heaven. Of course, I
admit that at first the plan may seem
a little abrupt and cruel, and yet is it
more cruel than present conditions,
and would it not be well to be a little
more abrupt in our social solutions?
At any rate think it over,” and the
colored man dropped lazily into his
steamer chair and felt for another
cigarette.
The crowd slowly dispersed; the
Southerner chose the Woman, but was
heard to say something about fools.
The Westerner turned to the New
Yorker and said: “Now, what in hell
do you suppose that darky meant?”
But the Little Old Lady went silently'
to her cabin.
Here m the Time of the Winter M orn
By WILLIAM MOORE
Here in the time of the Winter morn,
Love,
I see the Sunlit leaves of changing hue
Burn clear against a sky of tender blue,
Here in the time of the Winter morn,
Love.
Here in the time of the Winter morn,
Love,
1 hear the low tone bells of changing
song
Ring clear upon the air the full day long,
Here in the time of the Winter morn,
Love.
I hear the bells, I see the changing
leaves,
And one lone heart for Summer silent
grieves,
Here in the time of the Winter morn,
Love.
EDITORIAL
1 17
The Black Folk of America
In Account with
THE YEAR OF GRACE, 1911
DEBIT	CREDIT
To The Lynching Terror with over
100 murders of men whose
guilt was unproven.
q The mob spirit, with the murder,
maiming and robbing of unknown
hundreds.
CJ Segregation ordinances in Balti-
more and the South.
Segregation movements to keep
Negroes out of decent neighbor-
hoods in New York and the
North.
q Blease, Vardaman and Hoke
Smith.
q Strikes against Negro workingmen
in Tennessee and elsewhere.
q Discouragement of Negro emigra-
tion to Canada.
q Fall of the “True Reformers.”
CJ Wholesale removal of colored
officeholders in the South by
President Taft.
q The Washington-Ulrich affair.
q The deaths of Bishops Grant and
Handy; George W. Walker, the
comedian; Bob Cole, the actor
and composer; Mrs. F. E. W.
Harper, the author; George Wil-
liams Walker, the educator; John
S. Trower, the caterer; Mrs.
S. J. Garnet, the social worker;
Justice Harlan, the ‘‘Friend at
Court,” and Thomas Wentworth
Higginson, the author.
By Balance in favor of the
Black Folk of America:
HOPE
COURAGE
DETERMINATION
By The Races Congress.
q The appeal of Negro Americans
to Europe.
q The striking increase of Negro
wealth in land and homes,
q The census report of the increase
of the Negro American popula-
tion from 1,377,808 in 1810 to
9,828,294 in 1910.
q Centenary celebrations of the
birthdays of Sumner, Phillips and
Harriet Beecher Stowe,
q The blow at peonage in Alabama
by the Supreme Court,
q The forward movement for the
colored Y. M. C. A. induced by
Julius Rosenwald of Chicago,
q The Root-Borah debate on dis-
franchisement.
q The first colored policeman in
New York City and the first col-
ored legislator in Pennsylvania,
q The first promise of aid to Negro
higher education at Fisk from the
General Education Board,
q The Protectorate of Liberia,
q The appointment of a colored
Assistant United States Attorney,
q The refusal of Cornell to draw
the “color line.”
q The fiasco of Mr. Taft and the
black soldiers in Texas,
q The fight for suffrage in Okla-
homa.
q The winning of civil-rights suits
in New York, New Jersey,
Massachusetts and elsewhere,
q Defeat of disfranchisement in
Maryland.
q The work of the National Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of
Colored People and The Crisis.
8
THE CRISIS
THE DOUGLASS HOSPITAL
OF PHILADELPHIA
The colored hospital is the result of
two impulses—the philanthropic desire
to help the sick which arose during and
after the Civil War and' the clinical
needs of the new colored physicians who
found themselves barred by prejudice
from general hospitals.
In the South there are either no hos-
pital accommodations for Negroes or
poorly equipped and badly neglected
Negro wards. Here and there one finds
an exception to this, like the colored
hospital at Augusta, Ga. In the colored
wards of the Southern hospitals almost
universally the colored doctors are
excluded. The Phoebe Putney Hospital
was recently established at Albany, Ga.,
with the distinct understanding that col-
ored patients and physicians were to be
admitted. The colored people began a
fund to equip an operating room and
had collected $200 when the white
physicians voted to exclude colored
physicians entirely.
In the North it is usually impossible
for colored physicians to be admitted to
hospitals. Even in the case of distinct-
ively colored charities like the Lincoln
Hospital of New York City, with its
endowment yielding $115,000 a year,
given by friends of Negroes for
Negroes, no Negro physician has ever
been admitted to the staff.
The result has been the founding' of
about forty Negro hospitals in the
United States. One of these we bring
to the attention of our readers this
month, and in later issues we shall speak
of similar institutions.
The Frederick Douglass Memorial
Hospital and Training School was
founded in Philadelphia in 1895 by Dr.
Nathan F. Mossell. The hospital was
incorporated in 1896, and later a modern;
THE DOU CLASS HOSPITAL
I 19
THE OPERATING ROOM
thoroughly equipped building was
erected at a cost of $118,000. The hos-
pital has a staff of colored and white
physicians, and it serves the fifty Negro
practitioners of that city with the best
clinical advantages. Approximately 3,500
in-patienfs and 40.000 out-patients have
been treated at the hospital without dis-
tinction of color.
The nurse training department receives -
girls who are high-school graduates, and
gives them a course extending over two
years and three months.
The State of Pennsylvania has appro-
priated in all $S6.000 for the mainte-
nance of the hospital and $18,000 for
building purposes, while the colored peo-
ple of the city have, through donations,
fairs and entertainments, raised $77,000.
of which $50,000 went to the building
and the rest covered the expense of
administration.
Recently a social service department
has been established and a post-graduate
course for physicians.
We publish a view of the unusually
THREE MINISTERS TO PAIN
120
THE
CRISIS
beautiful and well-equipped building, a
scene in the operating amphitheatre and
a group of nurses. To these we are glad
to add a portrait of Dr. Mossell, the
medical director and superintendent, to
whose tireless ef-
forts the hospital is
a monument. Dr.
Mossell was born in
Canada in 1S56, and
was graduated at
Lincoln University
and the medical de-
partment of the Uni-
versity of Pennsyl-
vania. He has also
studied in London,
served as president
of the National
Medical Association,
and is the author of
several papers. In
his work he has been
effectively helped by
his energetic wife.
These two, assist-
ed by a board of
DR. N. F.
managers under the presidency of An-
drew J. Stevens, and a consultang staff
which carries such names as S. Weir
Mitchell, W. W. Keen and Marcus F.
Wheatland, have begun and carried
on this work. The
hospital is, how-
ever, still burdened
with a mortgage
debt of $52,000,
which i t s friends
are struggling to
satisfy.
It is doubtful if
t h e philanthropist
could find a more
effective method of
investing his funds
for the future wel-
fare of his fellow
men than by helping
this institution. The
Crisis would be glad
to receive any funds
for this hospital and
forward them to the
_______ proper authorities.
HISTORIC DAYS IN JANUARY
1.	Lincoln issues the Emancipatioi
Proclamation, 1863. The Liberator ap
pears, 1831. Haiti formally declares inde
pendence, 1804.
2.	Negroes of Philadelphia petitioi
Congress for abolition of slavery, 1800.
3.	Lucretia Mott born, 1793.
4.	First Regiment Kansas Colorc
Volunteers organized, 1866.
9.	Fisk schoolhouse (afterward Fis
University) opened, 1866.
10.	James Varick, first bishop A. M. I
Zion Church, born, 1768. 11 12 13 * 15
11.	Isaac Knapp, abolitionist, bor
1804.
12.	Commission appointed to inquii
into the matter of the proposed annex,
tion of Santo Domingo, 1871.
13.	National convention of colore
men meets in Washington, 1869.
15. Free Negroes of Massachuset
authorized to enlist, War of the Revolt
tion, 1776.
17.	Mary Garnett Barbosa, Negro mis-
sionary, born, 1845.
18.	Rhode Island ratifies Fifteenth
Amendment, 1870.
21.	John C. Fremont born, 1813.
22.	Toussaint L’Ouverture enters the
city of Santo Domingo, 1801.
23.	Amendment to the Constitution
proposed to forbid Congress to legislate
on slavery, 1861.
25. Manumitted Negroes forbidden to
remain in Virginia, 1806.
28.	George S. Boutwell, author of the
Thirteenth Amendment, born, 1818.
29.	Clay compromises on slavery
introduced, 1850.
30.	United States statute declaring the
slave-trade piracy made perpetual, 1823.
31.	Georgia prohibits importation of
slaves, 1798.
L. M. Hershaw.
It would seem that at Christmas time
we should not find it necessary to speak
of the burden; that, for this season at
least, the weight should drop from the
black man and woman and they should
stand free and untrammeled, able to
walk erect through the rough pathway of
life. But with the rejoicing of the
December days oppression has grown no
less; and while in every Christian church
there has been the song of “Peace on
Earth,” it has brought no hope that the
burden would slip from the weary back
into the open sepulchre.
What is within this pilgrim pack?
First, poverty. The black man and
woman are weighed down by long hours
of toil, often at uncongenial tasks. Life
grows increasingly difficult. High prices
for the simplest food, high rental for the
poorest room or cabin, low remuneration
for the wearying task, this is the com-
mon lot. Only the few escape it. And
this load deadens ambition, and makes
the bright child into the indifferent,
easily discouraged man or woman.
Another weight within the pack is dis-
ease. “Give me health and a day,” Emer-
son said, “and I will make the pomp of
emperors ridiculous-” After a long
night’s sleep to waken, every nerve and
muscle rested, into the fresh air of the
morning, is to know, indeed, the majesty
of living. But to many the new day
brings a renewal of sickness of body and
of soul. For the load of poverty too
often carries with it the other load of ill
health.
But these burdens, ill health and pov-
erty, are in the common pack. The dawn
of a new year will see millions of light
as well as dark faced laborers bending
under these deadening loads. What is
the special burden that the black man
alone bears?
It is the burden that separates man
from man—the burden of misunderstand-
ing. Each year the African element in
our population is shut off a little more
from the white race, .some avenue of
opportunity, along which the two walked
side by side, is closed to darker folk.
And with this separation comes distrust,
misunderstanding; at the last the hatred
that ends in the blind fury of the
lyncher’s mob.
The white jury that failed to convict
the men of its race for lynching a black
man was only following out the lesson
it had been taught during recent years.
Day by day the United States declares
that the black man must be ignored, that
his opinion is worthless, that he is not a
man among other men. How then should
the nation expect, at a time of great ex-
citement, that the lesson it has slowly
been drilling into the minds of its people
should be reversed? If a black man is
not fit to lay bricks with you, or ride on
the same car with you, or eat in the same
restaurant with you, or bury his dead near
yours, he is not fit for the same justice
which is meted to white men. Burn him
by all means as an example. Indeed, has
not this been laid down as precedent
throughout the land when its Chief Ex-
ecutive decided that black defenders of
their country should be disciplined with
a hasty severity never meted out to
white?
Injustice and misunderstanding! These
go together, and these are the heaviest
burdens in the black man's pack- Can
anything be done to lighten them? The
Crisis believes that it is helping to ac-
complish this by bringing to its readers’
notice facts of injustice. It believes that
when Americans know the disabilities un-
der which the black man’s back is made
to bend, they will not so lightly allow
them to pass without protest. But this is
the new year, and will not the white
people who read this burden decide in
their hearts that they will do one thing
more? Will they not go out of their
way to know the colored people in the
city or town in which they live? Will
they not endeavor to include them in
their plans for civic betterment, in their
philanthropy, in their religion? Will
they not invite them cordially into th$
great movements that make glad their
lives, the movements for economic bet-
terment, for the enfranchisement of
women? And, on the other hand, will
the dark-faced people strive to put aside
distrust and to believe in the sincerity
of the white man or woman who ap-
proaches them? This is the harder part.
But it is indeed the only way by which
the burden shall fall and its former
bearer be led into the large upper cham-
ber that looks toward the sunrise, and
that is named Peace.
122
THE CRISIS
vttA,AnUMA:	“BY J
OR PERSONS UNKNOWN'
Vision of a Lyncker
[Written for THE CRISIS and dedicated
to IIis Excellency, tho Govoruor of South
Carolina.]
Once looked I into hell—’twas in a
trance
Throughout a horrid night of soul-
wrought pain;
Down through the pit I saw the
burning plain,
Where writhed the tortured swarm,
without one glance
Upward to earth or God. There in
advance
Of all the rest was one with lips
profane-
And murderous, bloody hands,
marked to be slain
By peers that would not bear him
countenance.
“God,” cried I in my dream, “what
soul is he
Doomed thus to drain the utmost
cup of fate,
That even the cursed of Tartarus
expel?”
And the great Voice replied: “The
chastity
Of dear, confiding Law he raped;
now Hate,
LI is own begotten, drives him forth
from hell/’
Leslie Pinckney Hill.
‘A FRENZIED MOB OF PROMINENT CITIZENS”
THE YEAR’S BOOKS.
Reviewing the literature of the year
1911, the following seven books would
seem to be of permanent value and to
deserve to be bought and put on the
shelves of those interested in race and
human problems:
I.	“Papers on Interracial Problems
Communicated to the First Universal
Races Congress, 1911.” Edited by G.
Spiller, 485 pages. Peace Foundation,
Boston. Mass. $2.40.
This is the latest summary of the sci-
entific aspects and development of race
problems the world over.
II.	Boaz: “The Mind of Primitive
Man.” Macmillan Company, New York.
$1.50.
This contains the conclusions of a
leading American anthropologist on race
equality and intermixture.
III.	Ovington: “Half a Man.” 236
pages. Longmans, Green & Co., $1.00.
A sympathetic scientific study of col-
ored folk in New York City.
IV.	Chamberlain: “The Contribution
of the Negro to Human Civilization.”
A pamphlet reprinted from the Jour-
nal of Race Development, Vol. I., No.
4, which effectually disposes of the usual
assertion that the black race has contrib-
uted nothing to human culture.
V.	Stowe: “Harriet Beecher Stowe.”
Houghton-Mifflin Company, Cambridge,
Mass.. $1.50.
A biography of the author of “Uncle
Tom’s Cabin.”
VI.	Publications of Atlanta Univer-
sity. No. 15: “The College-bred Negro-
American,” 104 pages, 75 cents.
A statistical study of some results of
higher education.
VII.	Du Bois: “The Quest of the Sil-
ver Fleece,” 452 pages. A. C. McClurg
& Co., Chicago, $1.35.
The Independent says: “A race story
and a very interesting one, and admirably
told with the true artist’s touch—not
merely as a romance, but as a study of
race psychology it is well worth the
reading.”
All these books may be obtained at
The Crists office for the sum of $8.75,
carriage prepaid, and including one
year’s subscription to The Crisis.
CURRENT BOOKS.
“Black and White in Southeast Africa:
A Study in Sociology.” M. S. Evans,
Longmans, Green & Company.
“Congo Life and Folk-lore.” J. H.
Weeks.
“Interscholastic Athletic Association of
Middle Atlantic States.” Spalding’s
Athletic Library. American Sports
Publishing Company, 21 Warren St.,
New York. Colored athletes.
“Margaret Harding.” Percival Gibbon.
Methuen.
“Mr. Percival Gibbon, greatly dar-
ing, wrestles, in ‘Margaret Harding,’
with perhaps the most thorny of all
problems—the Race Question, which
bristles defiantly before the white man
wherever h„e has colonized near the
tropical zone. Mr. Gibbon knows
South African life more intimately
than do most of the novelists who
have depicted it.”—The Nation.
“Negro Women in America.” Frances
Hoggan, M. D.
Cf B. F. Riley’s “The White Man’s Bur-
den” (published by the author. Birming-
ham, Ala.) is the sincere effort of a
Southern white man to be fair. The book
is rambling and discursive, but it rings
with inner sincerity and truth. The main
thesis may be shown by one quotation:
“Why, then, should there be delay in
the adoption of a movement which will
rob the future of racial ominousness, and
clear the years to come of inevitable dif-
ficulties with which other generations
must grapple? To listen to the hoot of
the racial hater and the clatter of the
political pettifogger, who sees no further
than his own temporary self-advantage,
seems folly, in view of that which is in-
volved as well as that which portends.
Could a course justified by conditions
well known be adopted for the relaxation
of present conditions, and could there be
established between the white and black
races that which is friendly and tranquil,
there could be but one result. Side by
side there would eventually grow up a
dual civilization in the American States,
and especially in those of the South—one
purely white American and the other
Afro-American.”
124
THE CRISIS
‘The Eleventh Hour in the Life of Julia
Ward Howe.” Maud Howe. Little,
Brown & Company.
This little book shows that the
work of the last five years of Julia
Ward Howe’s life was as rich and
fruitful as that of any portion of her
career.
<1 We give below quotations from the
extremely interesting article on “Islam
as a Factor in West African Culture,”
which appeared in the Journal of Race
Development for October.
“There are many reasons why Islam
is widely accepted among the African
races of West Africa and the Sudan.
The teachers and propagators of Islam
x * * meet and treat the people as equals,
residing with them in their towns,
marrying the African women, and show-
ing the greatest sympathy with and in-
terest in African institutions and cus-
toms, and yet modifying and altering
them whenever they can do so without
doing great violence to the feelings and
habits of the people. Among other
things, it is taught that the African
black races have a high and honorable
part in the history and notable achieve-
ments of the Mohammedan faith. The
people arc made to feel a pride in the
fact that the black races are recognized
in the Koran, which contains a chapter
inscribed to an African Negro. The
people are told that Mohammed was in
part descended from an African and had
a black man as a confidant in Arabia.
The A iTicans thus feel a close relation-
ship to the Koranic faith.”
THE CRISIS
Calendar for 1912
Legible and Dainty
with the January
Crisis Girl in Colors
FIFTEEN CENTS
postpaid; and cheaper by the dozen
No. 4 Special Buggy
$65.00
A value unequalcd. Sold on
$1.00 Profit Margin. Write
for prices and other styles.
Send for catalog.
C. R. Patterson & Sons
GREENFIELD, OHIO
Largest Negro carriage concern in the United States
LEGAL DIRECTORY
J. DOUGLAS WETMORE ATTORNEY AMD CoUltiELOa-AT-I^w 5 Bccw Street (Temple Court) New York City TeL 6222 Cortl.ndt	CUble Addrew, Judowet	Real Estate and Probate Matters a Specialty ROBERT B. BARCUS Attorney and Counselor-at-Law Notary Public Office: Room 502, Eberly Block	Columbui, 0.
FREDERICK L. McGHEE Attorney and Counseloe-at-Law Union Block, Fourth and Cedar Streets St. Paul, Minn.	B. S. SMITH Attorney and Counselor-at-Law. Offices: Suite 610, Sykes Block Minneapolis, Minn.
G'nerol Practice	Public WILLIAM R. MORRIS Attorney abd Counselor-at-Law 1020 Metropolitan Ufe Buildinf Minneapolis, Minn.	GEORGE W. MITCHELL Attorney-at-Law 908 Walnut Street Philadelphia, Pa.
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER	125
ARE/yOU INTERESTED
)IN THE/II
NEGRO PROBLEM
i r
BOORS
~1
OR A /
PARTOFylT
4
THE
I1A0AZINE
STUDENTS OF THE NEGRO PROBLEM
The Souls of Black Folk, DuBois
History of the Negro * Washington
John Brown •	■ DuBois
Up From Slavery ■	■ Washington
Poems oi Paul Laurence
Dunbar
Poems of W. S. Braith*
waite
Race Adjustment	*	Miller
Negro In the New World, Johnston
Following the Color Line, Baker
Works of Charles W.
Chestnutt
Atlanta University Studies
Negro and the Nation ■ Merriara
Negro In the South ■ | Wa^,nSton
1 DuBois
Aftermath of Slavery ■ Sinclair
Half a Man •	-	Ovington
Life of Harriet Beecher
Stowe . •	■ ■ Siowe
Mind of Primitive	Man,	Boaz
Race Prejudice ■	•	Finot
Curse of Race Prejudice, Morton
Quest of the Silver Fleece,
a novel -	DuBois
Through Afro - America, Archer
Southern South ■	•	Hart
Interracial Problems, Official Record
of the Universal Races Congress
And general readers will
find this list embraces the
most popular and compre-
hensive studies of the Negro
question. They are the
besl books by the best
writers and thinkers. By
special arrangements with
the publishers of the books
we are in position to make
combination offers at re-
markably low prices. This
offer is good for a limited
time only and is made to
increase the subscription
list of
THE CRISIS
I
THE CRISIS
.\ RECORD OF TIIF. DARKER RACES

e* ci>n » ten
problems of inter-racial relations and especially
those which'affect the Negio American.
the magazine edited by
W. EL B. DuBois with the co-operation of Oswald Gamson
Villard, Charles Edward Russell. Kelly Miller and
others. The Crisis is the organ of the National As-
sociation For the Advancement of Colored Peopl
and is a record of every important happening and
movement in the world which bears on the great /
Publishers
of the CRISIS.
20 Vesey Street.
OUR OFFER:	/ New York City.
We have made special combinations Gentlemen.
with these books in sets of five, ten, fif-	.	ease .end,
.	.	., r, without any cost to
teen and twenty, together with a rJv	,	.	.
•	.	, _ . . ry me. your descriptive
year s subscription to the Crisis,	i	a	,
^ circular offering these
and will be glad lo have the g ^ o(	on ^
name* and address of all/ Negro Problem and a
•ho find themselves / year’s subscription to the
Mention The Crisis.
126
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Through our Classified Advertising Service you have the opportunity
to tell your little wants to 40,000 SELECT readers.
€] If you want HELP, you can find, among The CRISIS readers,
graduates of Industrial Schools and thousands of young people who are
trained for efficient, dependable service.
If you want a POSITION, The Crisis can help you find high-
class places for teachers, managers, clerks, stenographers, hotel men, etc., etc.
Q ^ °u will find our readers very responsive to this department for
Business Opportunities, Investments, Correspondence Schools, Agents
Vt/anUJ
Advertiser! may have replies sent in.care of The CRISIS and forwarded.
<| Classified advertising rates made known on application.
REAL ESTATE
Valuable Texas Lauds
For Sale
Large tracts of farm land in the best local-
ities of the State for sale at very flattering
prices. Small tracts for good lands suitable for
farming, truck, fruits and any domestic product.
We have for sale a number of large farms al-
ready in cultivation, good houses and harn6,
wells, and nice pasture lands, which can be
obtained at reasonable rates. City property a
specialty. Business lots in the best part of
the city, improved and unimproved. Largo lots
suitable for factory property with switch
facilities.
No investment can be more valuable than an
investment in Texas real estate. Lands are be-
coming so valuable that they are doubling
themselves in value in less than a year’s time.
For any investment in Texas property, write
T. B. Madison Real Estate Company, 2415 Elm
Street, Dallas, Texas.
To Colored People
FOR SALE—We have houseB from $1,000 to
$30,000. Our city is the capital of Ohio
and a great manufacturing center—plenty of
work, a good place to locate for business. Can
sell you a house for $50. $100 to $500 down,
balance like rent. For investment and specu-
lating houses or buBineBB places. $1,000 to
$5,000 down, balance on long time payment.
Farm land prices from $1,000 to $10,000 up.
Any of these are in good locations. Write for
further information
THIS IS A COLORED ENTERPRISE.
EDWARD A. SHANKLIN
Real Estate
1218V) ML Vernon Ave. Columbus, Ohio
Mention
Come to Oklahoma
TAFT. OKLAHOMA, is the fast-
est-growing colored town in the United
States. Already a flourishing, prosper-
ous community with bank, industrial col-
lege and State school for colored race,
cotton gin, brick yard, churches, numer-
ous stores and other enterprises, all con-
trolled by thriving colored citizens.
Surrounded by the most fertile farming
land in Oklahoma. Directly in the path
of the fortune-making oil developments
in Oklahoma. Splendid openings for
home seekers, business men, mechanics
and others. Invest your money in Taft
no tv. It will make you handsome
returns.
Beautifully located lots, $25 to $30
each. Five dollars cash, small monthly
payments without interest or taxes.
Perfect titles positively guaranteed.
Write to-day for handsome illustrated
map, booklet and lithograph.
REEVES REALTY CO.
Fly no-Ames Bldg., Muskogee, Okla.
The Crisis.
THE
CRISIS
ADVERTISER
127
REAL ESTATE
160 ACRES OF LAND FREE
Under the U. S. Homestead Act. 160 acres of land
may bo acquired free of charge. except small fee for
filing application and recording patent, by any person
of age, married or single (If married, the head of the
family Ls entitled), who la not the owner of any
land. Land located In 21 States. Some very rich
and productive. Choice of location. 8end $1.00 for
a copy of the Free Homestead Act. Address
0.	A. WRIGHT, Box 121, Bedford City. Virginia
MUSIC
HELEN ELISE SMITH
CONCERT PIANIST
Post-Graduate of the Institute of Musical Art
Pupil of Sigismund Stojowski
Teacher of Plano, Theory, Ear-training, etc.
224 EAST 86TH STREET, NEW YORK CITY
MISS EDITH W. McKENNY
Concert Pianist
310 W. 119th Street	New York City
I*iano lessons given privately or in classes
at reasonable rates.
Music furnished for private parties.
SCHOOLS
YOUNG MAN, HAVE YOU A TRADE?
By our method we teach the Barber Trade in
six weeks.
We give you a complete set of tools ^.d
secure you a position in a shop. Call or write
for particulars.
NEW YORK BARBER SCHOOL
Costello & Wise
Cor. Bowery and Rivington St. NEW YORK
Our Normal Preparatory Course
includes a thorough review of Arithmetic, Gram-
mar, Geography, U. S. History, Physiology,
Reading, Spelling, Penmanship. Drawing, Civil
Government and Theory and Art of Teaching.
Just the thing to prepare you for a teachers’
examination. Address
AFRO-AMERICAN CORRESPONDENCE
SCHOOL
2808 St. Ann Street	New Orleans, La.
FURRIER
Seventeen Years’ Experience
WORK TURNED OUT PROMPTLY
MRS. G. B. NEEDLES
Late with Broadway houses
PRACTICAL FURRIER
All kinds of furs remodelled, repaired and re
lined. White furs cleaned, equal to now. Coats
guaranteed to fit. Prices reasonable.
24 WEST 135TH STREET	NEW YORK
SITUATION WANTED * 20
YOUNG LADY desires position as stenographer
or office helper. Experienced. References
given. Address A. L. V., care of THE CRISIS,
20 Vesey Street.
ENTERTAINER
’Phone 4876-W Harlem
The Quaint Entertainer, Anthor and Banjo
Comedian
AL. BROWN
Presents His
DUO, TRIO AND QUARTETTE
For All Private Occasions
References:	The Public for 12 Years
Studio: 16-18 W. 136th St. New York City
Hours: 10 A. M. to 7 P. M.
HELP WANTED
RELIABLE HELP at all times for the moat
discriminating employers.
Out-of-town correspondence invited.
References thoroughly investigated
Address:
MISS I. L. MOORMAN
463 Lenox Avenue	New York
‘Phone: Harlem, 6370
Middlesex Employment Agency
Offers you the benefit of its experience, gained
by years of actual conduct of business and the
prestige that comes from a large clientele of
satisfied patrons.
Our rigid investigation of references keeps our
standard high. Mail orders solicited.
2229 Fifth Avenue, near 136th Street,
New York.
MEN AND WOMEN WANTED
to sell beautiful Art Pictures. Our agents
are coining money on these pictures.
Three sample pictures by mail, 35 cents.
Ten sample postcards by mail, 6 cents.
Address
JACOB GRIFFITH
252 W. 53d Street	New York
WANTED—A first-class photographer to take full
charge of studio in best city in America, with
privilege of buying half interest of entire
business. Owner going on road as demon-
strator. For particulars address No. 10U. care
of THE CRISIS.
PATENTS
L.	H. LATIMER
MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEER
and
SOLICITOR OF PATENTS
55 John Street	New York
Inventions Perfected, Models and Experi-
mental Machines Designed and Constructed.
Technical Translations.
Telephone 343 John	Room 604
REGALIA
A RACE ENTERPRISE
Manufacturing Badges, Banners and
Supplies for all Fraternal and Church
Societies. Catalogue upon request.
CENTRAL REGALIA CO.
Jos. L. ‘Jones, Pres.
N.	E. Cor. 8th and Plum Streets
Cincinnati, Ohio
Mention The Crisis.
128
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
BOOKS
Publications of the N. A. A. C. P.
The N. A. A. C. P. has for sale the following
pamphlets:
1.	Disfranchisement: A powerful argument by
the Rev. John Haynes Holmes.
2.	Education in the South: Facts about the
discrimination against the Negro. By the Rev.
Horace Bumstead, former president of Atlanta
University.
3.	The Real Race Problem: A scientific com-
parison of the black and the white man by
America’s foremost anthropologist. Prof. Boas, of
Columbia University.
4.	Social Control.
House.
By Jane Add&ms, of Hull
By Brigadier-
FIVE CENTS EACH. THREE DOLLARS A HUNDRED
So!di'r-
The Curse of Race Prejudice
James F. Morton, Jr., A.M., Author and Publisher
Forceful, rational, comprehensive. An arsenal
of facts and unanswerable arguments. Invaluable
for propaganda. Read the chapter on “The Bur-
boar of Social Equality,’* which it a veritable
eye-opener. Thousands already sold. Agents
wanted everywhere.
PRICE 25 CENTS
Address the Author at 244 West 148d Street,
New York, N. Y.
THE CRISIS
CHARLES D. LEVY, Agent
4218 Clara Street New Orleans, La.
NEW YORK CITY
fHaraljaUH ijmtrl
COMFORT-—i -- -•
127-129 West 53d Street
COMFORT’ t	NEW yobk oiit
conveniences and privIfegeTof ^“modern^houl genUine H°me COmf°rtS P‘US th*
tional feature^wh^rh^r ^ote* an<* d’n>ng room the “Marshall" service is an excep-
Restaurant*1 open-air	C°m °n P‘eaSUre ^ Patr°nS- •	. .	.
. ..J*.	Cuisine to satisfy the most discriminating
Breakfast 7^n L A,1l^nINSTRUMENTAL MUSIC EVERY EVENING
’ Special P™' 3°n- Lun5.heon- >2:30 to 3, 30c. Dinner. 6 to 8, 35c.
- . . /PeC,al Course Dlnn^ Every Sunday and Holidays, 50c.
p one, 4693 - 4694 Columbus	J. L- MARSHALL, Proprietor
’Phone 2877 Lenox
WHITE ROSE WORKING GIRLS’
HOME
217 East 86th Street
Bet. Becond and Third Avenues
Pleasant temporary lodgings for working girls,
with privileges, at reasonable rates. The Home
solicits orders for working dresses, aprons, etc.
Address:
MBS. FRANCES R. KEY8ER, Bupt.
THE SOUTHERN RESTAURANT
2229 Fifth Avenue
Bet. 135th and 136th Sts.
Real Home Cooking; Meals Served at All Hours.-
REASONABLE RATES EXCELLENT SERVICE
Home-made Rolls Served Hot
‘A quiet place for quiet people to dine”
“THE BRADFORD”
73 WEST 134TH STREET
Between Fifth and Lenox Avenues NEW YOBK
Oysters, Chops, Steaks, Rarebits, Salads, Club
Sandwiches, Etc. Regular Dinner, 25c., from
2 p. m. to 9 p. m. Meals Served at All Hour*.
Private Dining Room. Furnished Rooms To
Let. Permanent or Transient.
______JOHN E. BRADFORD, Proprietor
IS YOUR HOTEL LISTED HERE?
IF NOT, WRITE US.
NORTH CAROLINA
SANDERS' HOTEL
301 S. Caldwell Street, Charlotte, N. 0.
Ideal location for transient and permanent
boarders. All modern conveniences and comfortB
of borne life.
J. T. SANDERS
Proprietor
'Phono 681	Hot and Cold Baths
WARREN HOTEL
MISS BETTIE DUNCAN, Proprietress
First-class accommodations. Meals at all hours.
RATES REASONABLE
COR. RAMSEY AND PROCTOR STREETS
Three Blocks from Union Station
DURHAM, N. C.
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
129
S.	A. KELSEY, Pres.	DR. WM. J. CARTER, Chiropodist. MME. A. C. KELSEY, Oen’l Instr.
The Kelsey School of Beauty Culture and Hair Dressing
328 Lenox Avenue, New York City
Manicuring, Shampooing, Hair Dressing, Beauty Culture, Hair Making and
Chiropody scientifically taught. Day and night sessions. Instructions given to
pupils in their own homes if desired. Diplomas awarded. Send for booklet-
directory of recently graduated students.
HOOT SUPREME OFFICERS OF THE		Hoo Hoo !	Hoo Hoo !	Hoo Hoo !
A A		SOMETHING NEW
		The Afro-American
•ii		Order of Owls
o o o		With a Graduated Scale of Endowment
Home Nest Tree 110^ West Colfax Ave. South Bend, Ind.		WANTED — Organizers in every city in the United States. For particulars write G. W. Bland. H. S. P., 110% Colfax Avenue. South Bend. Indiana.
ESTABLISHED 1887	'Phono 4715 Mad. Sq.
L. A. de TOSCANO CO.
OLDEST COLORED REGALIA ESTABLISHMENT IN THE CITY
Knights of Pythias	BADGES	Paraphernalia
Knights Templars	JEWELS	and Supplies
And Patriarchs		for All Societies
Equipments	REGALIA	Estimates Given
.	Mme. B. E. de Toscano, Manager
146 WEST 31st STREET	Bet. Sixth and Seventh Avenues	NEW YORK CITY
Do You Want to Make Money?
CANVASSERS TO SELL SPHINX HANSOPE
Used in garage, machine shop, factory and home. Twenty-five boxes
for $1.25; you sell for $2.50. Whitens the skin, softens the hands, prevents
chapping, heals cracks and sores. The first aid in burns. Strictly antiseptic.
SPHINX LABOR-SAVING SOAP CO., Inc.
117 West Street, New York City
Telephone 3263 Harlem	CARPET CLEANING
CLEANERS AND RENOVATERS FOR PARTICULAR PEOPLE
NEW YORK CAREFUL CLEANING BUREAU
12 WEST 135TH STREET
We make a specialty of cleaning and renovating carpets, rugs, portieres and upholstered
furniture, we also vacuum clean in the home. We are not the largest carpet cleaner in the
world, but absolutely the most careful in every detail.
SHAMPOOING CARPETS AND RUGS OUR SPECIALTY
Mention Thb Crisis.
130
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
Is Your Hair
^Falling Out?
Vour Hair Will Not Be Beautiful Unless It Is Healthy.
When the hair splits, breaks off, falls out, or you have
an abnormal amount of dandruff, you need the attention
of a hair specialist.
MADAME WALKER’S Have
-^—PREPARATIONS—► ' You
Dandruff will not only relieve these conditions and encourage Eczema
----a soft, healthy growth, but in using them you get the	~~
7	advice and personal attention of Madame Walter, who	•
is regarded as an expert in the treatment of scalp diseases
Have
You
ADDRESS
Madame C. J. WALKER
640 N. WEST STREET	INDIANAPOLIS, IND., U. S. A.
Ladies’ Kid Gloves
Save Money Buying Direct
No. N. 656. Two-clasp imported
kid glove, with new heavy self-
colored or black embroidery, in
colors and white, pretty and at-
tractive. White, black, tan, gray,
mode, navy blue, green. Sizes
514 to 8 (14 sizes). Usually retailed
$1.25, our price 85c.
•No. N. 662. Eight-button length
Glace Mousquetaire, two clasps or
two buttons at wrist. Can be worn
with any length sleeve. In white,
black, gray, tan, mode, ox blood,
green. Sizes 514 to 714. Usually
retailed $2, our price $1.45.
Bom. 2220
Cen. 6322
Van Noy Printing Co,
100 Linen Finish Cards by Mail, 50c.
COMMERCIAL PRINTING
SOCIETY PRINTING
BOOK A1TD JOB PRINTING
2315 MARKET ST. ST. LOUIS, MO.
FREE—!Rond for booklet, showing all
RtyliK of kid. suede, cape, chamois, silk
cashmere and golf.
O. Aegnstes Wright
Attorney-in-Fact
P. O. Box 121	Bedford City, Va.
Practices before the Department of the
Interior, and the several bureaus thereof
at Washington, D. C. Prosecutes
claims for pension, increase of pen-
sion and bounty land.
Searches made of U. S. Patent Office
records; assignments of patents pre-
pared and filed. Trademarks and copy-
rights procured.
Correspondence solicited.
Approved: Bureau of Pensions, J. P.
9-26-11.
Mention The Crisis.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION for the
ADVANCEMENT of COLORED PEOPLE
(Incorporated May 26, 1911)
OBJECT.—The National Association
for the Advancement of Colored People
is an organization composed of men and
women of all races and classes who be-
lieve that the present widespread increase
of prejudice against colored races and
particularly the denial of rights and
opportunities to ten million Americans of
Negro descent is not only unjust and a
menace to our free institutions, but also
is a direct hindrance to World Peace
and the realization of Human Brother-
hood.
METHODS.—The encouragement of
education and efforts for social uplift; the
dissemination of literature; the holding of
mass meetings; the maintenance of a lec-
ture bureau; the encouragement of vigi-
lance committees; the investigation of com-
plaints; the maintenance of a Bureau of
Information; the publication of The
CRISIS; the collection of facts and publi-
cation of the truth.
ORGANIZATION.—All interested
persons are urged to join our organization
—associate membership costs $ 1, and
contributing and sustaining members pay
from $2 to $25 a year.
FUNDS.—We need $10,000 a year
for running expenses of this work and par-
ticularly urge the necessity of gifts to help
on our objects.
OFFICERS.—The officers of the
organization are:
National President — Mr. Moorfield
Storey, Boston, Mass.
Chairman of the Executive Committee—
Mr. Oswald Garrison Villard, New
York.
Treasurer—Mr. Walter E. Sachs, New
York.
Director of Publicity and Research—Dr.
W. E. B. Du Bois, New York.
Secretary—Miss Mary W. Ovington,
New York.
COMMITTEE.—Our work is car-
ried on under the auspices of the follow-
ing General Committee, in addition to the
officers named:
Miss Gertrude Bamum. New York.
Miss Frances Blascoer. New York.
•Her. W. II. Brooks, New York.
Prof. John Dewey, New York.
•Dr. John Lovejoy Elliott. New York
•Mrs. Thos. Ewing. Jr.. New York.
•Her. John Haynes Holmes. New York.
Mr. Hamilton Holt. New York.
Miss Maud It. Inrersoll. New York.
•Mrs. Florence Kelley. New York.
•Mr. Paul Kennaday. New York.
•Mrs. F. R. Keyser. New York.*
Dr. Chas. Lenz. New York.
Mr. Jacob W. Mack. New York
•Mrs. M. D. Maclean. New York.
•Mr. John E. Milholland. New York.
Rev. Horace G. Miller. New York.
Mrs. Max Morgenlhau. Jr.. New York.
Mr. James F. Morton. Jr.. New York.
Mr. Henry Moskowliz. New York.
Miss Leonora O'Reilly. New Y'ork.
•Rev. A. Clayton Powell. New York.
•Mr. Charles Edward Russell. New Y'ork.
Mr. Jacob H. Schiff. New Y'ork.
Prof. E. R. A. Seligman. New Y'ork.
•Dr. Joseph Silverman. New York.
Mrs. Anna Garlin Spencer. New Y’ork.
•Prof. J. E. Splngarn. New York.
Mrs. Henry Villard. New Y'ork.
•Miss Lillian D. Wald. New Y'ork.
•Mr. Wra. English Walling. New Y’ork.
•Bishop Alexander Walters. New Y’ork.
Dr. Stephen S. Wise. New Y'ork.
Miss M. R. Lyons. Brooklyn. N. Y.
•Dr. O. M. Waller. Brooklyn. N. Y*.
Mr. D. Macon Webster. Brooklyn. N. Y’.
Mr. Geo. E. Wlbeean. Jr.. Brooklyn. N. Y.
Mrs. W H. Talbert. Buffalo. N. Y’.
Hon. Thos. M. Osborne. Auburn. N. Y’.
•Mr. W L. P.ulkley. Ridgefield Park. N. J.
Mr. George W. Crawford. New Haven. Conn.
Miss Maria Baldwin. Boston. Mass.
Mr. Francis J. Garrison. Boston. Mass.
Mr. Archibald H Grinike. Boston. Mass.
Miss Adelene Moffat. Boston. Mass.
•Mr. Albert E. Pillsbury. Boston. Mass.
Mr. Wm. Munroe Trotter. Boston. Mass.
Dr. Horace Bumstead. Brookline. Mass.
Miss Elizabeth C. Carter. New Bedford. Mass.
Rev. Harvey Johnston, Baltimore. Mil.
Rev. Garnett R. Walter. Baltimore. Md.
Prest. Chas. T. Thwlng. Cleveland. O.
Mr. Chas. W. Chesnutt. Cleveland. 0.
lion. Harry C. Smith. Cleveland. O.
Prest. H. C. King. Oberlin. O.
Prest. W. S. Scarborough. Wilberforce. O.
•Miss Jane Addams. Chicago. 111.
•Mrs. Ida B. Wells Barnett. Chicago. 111.
•Dr. C. E. Bentley. Chicago. III.
Miss Sophronisba Breckenridge. Clilcago. III.
Mr. Clarence Harrow. Chicago. 111.
Mr. Julius Rosemvald. Chicago. 111.
Mrs. Celia Parker Woolley. Chicago. 111.
Mr. F. L. McGhee. St. Paul. Minn.
Miss Frances BarthoL - cw. Philadelphia. Pa.
•Dr. N. F. Mossell. 1 delphia. Pa.
•Dr. Wm. A. Sinclair. . niladelphia. Pa.
Miss Susan Wharton. Philadelphia. Pa.
Mr. R. R. Wright. Jr.. Philadelphia. Pa.
Mr. W Justin Carter. Harrisburg. Pa.
Rev. Harvey Johnson. D. D.. Baltimore. Md.
Hon. Wm. S. Bonnet. Washington. D. C.
Mrs. Carrlo W. Clifford. Washington. D. C.
Mr. L. M. Hershaw, Washington. D. C.
Prof. Kelly Miller. Washington. D. C.
Prof. L. B. Moore. Washington. D. C.
Justice W. P. Stafford. Washington. D. C.
•Mrs. Mary Church Terrell. Washington. D. C.
•Rev. J. Milton Waldron. Washington. D. C.
Prest. John Hope. Atlanta. Ga.
Mr. Leslie P. Hill. Manassas. Va.
Mr. William Pickens. Talladega. Ala.
•Executive Committee.
OFFICES:
Suite 311, 20 Vesey Street, New York.
THE FROGS
Announce Their First Stage Performance and
Midwinter Ball at
NEW STAR CASINO
107th Street, bet. Lexington and Park Avenues
on
Monday Evening, January 29, 1912
At which time will be presented a series of allegorical tableaux with music
A One-act Comedy with Songs.
A Dramatic Sketch in Pantomime.
A Satirical Burlesque.
All written and acted by Frogs.
Reserved seats, 50c, 75c, $1; Box seats, $2.50 to $6, not including admission
For information concerning advance reservations address
CORKER and ROGERS, Advertisement Committee
Care of Nail and Parker
145 WEST 135th STREET	NEW YORK CITY
“That the particular purpose and object of our Society or Club are tho promotion of
social intercourse between the representative members of the Negro Theatrical Profession
and of those connected directly or indirectly with Art, Literature, Music, of Song, Stories
or Terpsichorean Art, and Liberal Professions and the patrons of the Arts. The creation of
a library relating especially to the history of the Negro, and to record all his worthy
achievements, particularly those pertaining to Arts. The collection and preservation of
original Folk-Lore, of Pictures.^ Bills of the Plays in which the Negro has participated;
Photographs and Curiosities which might in any way be connected! with such History.’’
THE DIFFERENCE
Between “GOOD ENOUGH” and the “BEST” is the
difference between ordinary print-shop work and ours.
Our facilities and long years of experience give
our work that INDIVIDUALITY which you appreciate in
your printed things?
We refer you to Mr. Conde Nast of Vogue and
Dr. W. E. B. Du Bois of The Crisis.
By the way, we print The CRISIS. Do you like
it? If so, let us make an estimate on your work.
ROBERT N. WOOD 202
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS
r-»	^
------------—--
V			^%Trrx			
			tMK. —M iBk		
					
A R.ECOR.D OF THE DARKER. RACES
Volu me Tb rec	FEBRUARY, 1912	Number Four
Captain CHARLES YOUNG. United States Army
ONE DOLLAR A YEAR
ten cents a copy
^Tke
National Religious Training
School and Chautauqua
extends a cordial greeting to the ministers of all denominations
to be the guests of the School for one week, beginning July
6, 1912, for the purpose of discussing the following and
kindred questions:
What is the moral condition of the people in your community?
Is crime on the increase? If not, what was the cause of its
reduction?
What is the sanitary condition? What effort, if any, has
been made to improve the sanitary condition?
Is the death rate increasing?
To what extent do you co-operate with the Civic Improvement
Leagues?
Has settlement work been conducted to any extent in your
community, and with what results?
What has been the effect of Temperance Organizations, and
have you co-operated with them?
To what extent has the work of the Y. M. C. A. and
Y. W. C. A. been effective in your community? Do
you approve them?
What is the general fitness of the city and country school
teacher?
What has been the attitude of the day-school teacher toward
the Church and Sunday School?
What is the real religious condition of your people? Revivals,
how conducted?
All ministers who intend attending this Conference should
make it known at an early date, addressing the President, so
that reservation can be made for them.
The Summer School and Chautauqua of the National
Religious Training School will open July 3, 1912, and
continue for six weeks. The most complete and most* up-to-
date Summer School for the Colored Race in the United
States. For particulars and terms address
President JAMES E. SHEPARD
DURHAM, N. C.
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS
A RECORD OF THE DARKER RACES
Published by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, at
20 Vesey Street, New York City.
W. E. BURGHARDT DU BOIS, Editor
M. D. MACLEAN, Managing Editor	Contributing
FRANK M. TURNER, Circulation Manager	Editora
ALBON L. HOLSEY, Advertising Manager
OSWALD GARRISON VILLARD
J. MAX BARBER
CHARLES EDWARD RUSSELL
W. S BRAITHWAITE
KELLY MILLER
CONTENTS FOR FEBRUARY, 1912
PORTRAIT OF CAPTAIN CHARLES YOUNG.................Coyer
PACE
ALONG THE COLOR LINE............................... 139
MEN OF THE MONTH................................... 146
OPINION ........................................... 147
EDITORIAL ......................................... 152
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE................................. 157
DYNAMITE IN KANSAS CITY............................ 160
DISFRANCHISING VOTERS IN MARYLAND.................. 163
WOMEN’S CLUBS .. .•......,.......................... 165
HISTORIC DAYS IN FEBRUARY. By L. M. Hershaw........ 166
THE BURDEN ...*..................................... 167
THEY SAY:
“One of the few magazines I read through.”
—K. E. Evans, Philadelphia.
“The high level which you have obtained in
The Crisis.”—E. R. A. Seligman, Columbia
University.
"Largely reprint, punk magazine."—Ralph Tyler
in the Bee, Washington, D. C.
“The greatest magazine ever published for the
uplift of the Negro people.”—Mattie E. Banks,
Omaha, Neb.
"For some reason or other I have not yet re-
ceived my Crisis for December. You people have
made the thing so confoundedly indispensable that
a fellow doesn’t feel as though he can be without
it very long after it is out.”—-George W. Crawford,
New Haven, Conn.
“A white clergyman told me some time ago
that if it were not for the fact that your paper
deals with the hated Negro problem," it would
be ranked among the best magazines in the
country.”—D. R. Clarke, Philadelphia.
“The Christmas Crisis sold on sight. It was
very, very good. I made 3 mistake in not ordering
more of them.”—A. M. Van dieter, Indianapolis.
Ind.	----------
“I want to express my appreciation of the
splendid work The Crisis is doing. The editorials
are such powerful records of what the whole move-
ment means that they arc worth the price (and
far more) of the magazine. No thinking man
could fail to be impressed by the force of the
arguments presented by facts, editorials and con-
tributions. The Crisis is the new ‘Liberator’ and
even more telling in its power.”—Theodore B
LathroP, Atlanta, Ga.
Agents wanted who can furnish references.
Entered as second-class matter in the post office at New York City.
136
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
FORWARD
MARCH YOUR SON OFF TC
Wilberforce University
The only school in the country foi
NegTo Youth which has a Military De
partment equipped by the Nationa
Government, and commanded by a detailec
United States Army Officer.
DEPARTMENTS
MILITABY	SCIENTIFIC
NORMAL	TECHNICAL
COMMERCIAL	THEOLOGICAL
CLASSICAL	MUSICAL
PREPARATORY
Banking taught by the actual operation!
in the Students' Savings Bank. Twelvi
Industries, 180 acreB of beautiful campus
Ten Buildings. Healthful surroundings
exceptional community. Maintained ir
part by the State of Ohio which supplie
facilities for the thorough training o
teachers.
Fall term began September 19th, 1911
Write for Catalog. * I.
W. S. SCARBOROUGH. Presiden
WM. A. JOINER, Superintendent, C. N
I.	Department.
Address all communications to
BOX 36	WILBERFORCE, OHH
-
Atlanta University
Is beautifully locatod in the Oity of Atlanta, Ga.
The courses of study Include High School, Nor-
mnl School and College, with manual training
and domestic science. Among the teachers are
graduates of Yale, Harvard,* Dartmouth, Smith
and Wellesley. Forty-one years of successful
work have been completed. Students come from
all parts of tho South. Graduates are almost
universally successful.
For further information address
President EDWARD T. WARE
ATLANTA. OA.
Knoxville College
Beautiful Situation, Healthful Location
The Best Moral and Spiritual Environment
A Splendid Intellectual Atmosphere
Noted for Honest and Thorough Work
Offers full courses in tho following depart-
ments: College, Normal, High School, Grammar
School and industrial.
Good water, steam heat, electric lights, good
drainage. Expenses very reasonable.
Opportunity for Self-help.
Fall Term Opened Sept. 27, 1911.
For information address
President R. W. McGranahan
KNOXVILLE, TENN.
Uirgitiia Union University
RICHMOND, VA.
A College Department, of high standards and
modern curriculum.
A Theological Department, with all subjects
generally required in the best theological
seminaries.
An Academy, with manual training, giving
a preparation for life or for college.
The positive moral and religious aim of the
school, its high standards of entrance and of
cl aBB work, its fine new buildings and well-
equipped laboratories and library, prepare a
faithful student for a life of wide usefulness.
GEORGE RICE HOVEY, Pr#.id#nt
American Church Institute
for Negroes
SIX SCHOOLS
The Bishop Payne Divinity School, Peters-
burgh, Va„ Wardon. the Reverend O. B. Bryan,
D.D.; St. Augustino s School, Raleigh, N. 0., for
normal and collegiote training, the Reverend A.
B. Hunter, Principal; the St. Paul Normal and
Industrial School, Lawrencoville, Va., the Rev-
erend James 8. Russell, Principal; St. Atha-
nasius' School, Brunswick. Ga.. Mr. A. N. Perry,
Principal; St. Mark’s School. Birmingham, Ala.,
tho Reverend C. W. Brooks. Principal: the
Vicksburg Industrial School, Vicksburg, Miss.,
the Reverend W. H. Marshall, Principal. For
information apply to tho principal at any school
or to the Reverend Samuel H. Bishop, General
Agent, 416 Lafayette Street, New York Oity.
Mention Thb Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
137
THE LIFE AND WORKS OF
Paul Laurence Dunbar
-Containing his complete poetical works, his best short
stories, numerous anecdotes and a complete biography of
the famous poet.
EXTRACT FROM INTRODUCTION.
I think I should scarcely trouble the reader with a special appeal
in behalf of this book if it had not specially appealed to me for
reasons apart from the author’s race, origin and condition. The
world is too old now and I find myself too much of its mood to care
for the work of a poet because he is black; because his father and
mother were slaves; because he was, before and after he began to
write poems, an elevator boy. These facts would certainly attract
me to him as a man if I knew him to have a literary ambition, but
when it came to his literary art, I must judge it irrespective of these
facts, and enjoy or endure it for what it was in itself.
—William Dean Howells.
Profusely illustrated with over half a hundred full-page
photo and half-tone engravings.
Cloth $2 Half Morocco $2.73 Full Morocco $3.75
--------------- SALES AGENT ----------
J. G. GUILES
214A St. Antoine Street	Montreal, Can.
Atlanta University
Studies of the
Negro Problems
15 Monographs. Sold Separately.
Address:
A. G. DILL
Atlanta University, Atlanta, Ga.
PUBLICATIONS
A. M. E. Book Concern Philadelphia, Pa.
THE POEMS OF PHILLIS WHEATLEY.
Reprint of first edition 1773; a valuable book.
Price, $1.00.	_ .
THE NEGRO PROBLEM. An analysis: What
It Is Not and What It Is; by R. R. Wright, Jr.
In pamphlet form. 15 cents.
THE COLORED REGULARS. By T. G.
Steward, Chaplain U. S. A., retired. Price, $1.50.
EVOLUTION AND LITE. By Algernon B.
Jackson, Surgeon-in-chief Mercy Hospital. Price,
75 cents.	__ , _ .
THE NEGBO IN PENNSYLVANIA. A Study
in Economic History; By R. R. Wright. Jr.,
Sometime Research Fellow in Sociology in tne
University of Pennsylvania. Price, Paper,
Cloth, $2.50.
Address
A. M. E. BOOK CONCERN
631 Pine Street,	Philadelphia, Pa.
Mention Thk Ckisis.
“A noteworthy book of the epoch.”
The Souls of
Black Folk
By W. E. BUBGHARDT DU BO IS
Eighth Edition
“It is one of the noteworthy
books, not merely of a year, but of
the epoch. Its every page is filled
with vigor, spontaneity and spirit-
uality.”—Boston Transcript.
“A stripping bare of the moral
and mental anatomy of the African
in America so as to reveal the naked
soul in its primitive simplicity,
seared and scarred by ages of suf-
fering. ”—New York Age.
With Author’s Portrait, $1.20 Net
At book stores or from the publishers
A. C. McCLURG & CO.
CHICAGO
138
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
A Social Study of the Negro in New York
HALF A MAN
By
MARY WHITE OVINGTON
With a Foreword by Dr. Franz Boas, of Columbia University
This book is the result of years of careful study and personal acquaint-
ance with actual conditions in New York.
Cj Its truths being applicable to all communities where the two races live
together, it must be considered one of the best social studies of recent years.
Price, $1,00; by mail, $1.12.
LONGMANS, GREEN & CO-, Publishers, NEW YORK
This book is for sale in the Book Department of The CRISIS, 20
Vesey St., New York.
Underwood
Standard Typewriter
Tt; UNDERWOOD b designed on
correct mechanical principles, is made of
the hest material and is unequalled in
speed, accuracy, ease of operation and
durability. UNDERWOOD sales
exceed those of any other machine.
“THE MACHINE YOU WILL
EVENTUALLY BUY”
Underwood Typewriter Co*,
-INCORPORATED
Underwood Building New York
Mention
Publications of the N. A. A. C. P.
The N. A. A. C. P. has for sale the following
pamphlets:
1.	Disfranchisement: A powerful argument by
the Rev. John Haynes Holmes.
2.	Education in the South:	Facts about the
discrimination against the Negro. By the Rev.
Horace Bumstead, former president of Atlanta
University.
3.	The Real Race Problem: A scientific com-
parison of the black and the white man by
America’s foremost anthropologist, Prof. Boas, of
Columbia University.
4.	Social Control. By Jane Addams, of Hull
House.
5.	The Negro as a Soldier. By Brigadier-
General Burt, U. S. A.
FIVE CENTS EACH. THREE D0LLAR8 A HUNDRED
The Curse of Race Prejudice
James F. Morton, Jb., A.M., Author and Publisher
Forceful, rational, comprehensive. An arsenal
of facts and unanswerable arguments. Invaluable
for propaganda. Read the chapter on “The Bug-
bear of Social Equality,” which is a veritable
eye-opener. Thousands already sold. Agents
wanted everywhere.
PRICE 25 CENTS
Address the Author at 244 West 143d Street,
New York, N. Y.
Lest you forget, we remind
•^you that the March CRISIS
will be brimful of good
things for every member
?:ETof the family.
it Crisis.
THE CRISIS
Volume Three	FEBRUARY. 1912
Number Four
ALONG
COLOR LINE
ECONOMICS.
Continued testimony accumulates
showing notable economic advance
among colored people. At the recent
meeting of the American Economic As-
sociation one speaker said: “The figures
at present obtainable indicate that be-
tween 1890 and 1910 the Negro farm
owners increased nearly 90 per cent,
and that the value of their holdings in
that same period has considerably more
than doubled. If we leave out of account
all Negroes in the South, except those
who own land, we find that these alone
have become an economic force that
must be reckoned with. In South Caro-
lina, for instance, not only are most of
the farms run by Negroes but 25 per
cent, of the actual owners are black.
<1 The filing of the will of the late
George W. Smith', colored, of Champaign
County, Illinois, shows an estate, the es-
timated value of which is $116,000, includ-
ing 400 acres of good land.
<3 Mr. M. N. Work reports that colored
people are operating 110.373 farms in
Alabama, containing one-third of all the
improved land in the State. The total
value of the products raised by Negroes
on farms in the State in 1910 amounts to
$40,000,000.
<3 The Mill City Cotton Mills near Dal-
las, Tex., have started work. They
represent an investment of something
over $100,000.
q Among the other manufacturing en-
terprises which colored people more or
less control, there are reported a silk
factory in North Carolina, an oil mill
and hosiery mill in Mississippi, and a
hosiery mill in North Carolina.
q A farmers’ conference is being held
at Hampton Institute, Hampton, Va.
q The Metropolitan Mercantile and
Realty Company of New York City is
said to be completely bankrupt and more
than 5,000 colored people will lose about
half a million dollars.
q The State Bureau of Industrial Sta-
tistics of Pennsylvania reports that the
Negroes own between $15,000,000 and
$20,000,000 worth of real estate in Penn-
sylvania.
q A writer in the Joliet (Ind.) News,
who has just been in Texas, says, with
regard to Boley, Okla., which is
seventy miles east of Guthrie: “The town
is only eight years old, has over 3.Q00
population, and there is not a white per-
son living in the town. They have four
miles of cement sidewalk, waterworks,
an electric-light plant, a bank and every-
thing that a modern little city has. There
is also a large college high school. One
business block, now being erected by the
Colored Masons, the second and third
stories being used for lodge purposes,
will cost over $30,000. I noticed fine new
brick stores now under construction.”
<1 In Oklahoma it is reported that three
colored women are very wealthy through
the ownership of land in the oil district.
Miss Isabella Lewis owns eighty acres,
which promises an income of nearly
$400,000 a year. Miss Josephine Morris
owns one hundred and fifty acres and has
accumulated several million dollars. Mrs.
Glenn and her daughters have an income
of over $100,000.
q Wellington Stewart, who recently died
in Missouri, had accumulated a $30,000
estate.
140
THE CRISIS
<3 The special committee on industrial
peace in Los Angeles has received a
communication from colored people
which says: “Since the prime object of
your movement is the adjustment of the
difficulties between ‘organized labor’ and
capital, according to the press reports,
permit me, in behalf of the 15,000 or
20,000	Negroes of. this city, who stand
outside the ranks of ‘organized’ labor,
to ask that they be not overlooked, both
in representation and in the adjustment
of these serious difficulties.
“Although unorganized and unrepre-
sented in ‘organized labor,’ yet permit
me to say that there are many just
grievances and complaints which the
colored people bear with patience and
hopefulness that could be allayed and
settled amicably by a proper understand-
ing between the capitalist and the colored
people. Many wrongs are being per-
petrated against the colored people of
Los Angeles as a race, which would
cause darkest Southland to blush with
shame.”
EDUCATION.
James Tate Cater, a graduate of At-
lanta University, ’09, and at present a
senior at Harvard College, is assistant
in mathematics at this the oldest uni-
versity in America.
<3 Leah Johnson, daughter of Joseph K.
Johnson of Norfolk, Mass., led her class
at graduation last June at the Norfolk
High School, and took a $200 prize. She
is now at Simmon’s College. Her sister
has gone to work on an abandoned farm
and took first prize for greening apples
at the Norfolk County Fair recently.
<3 The attendance at the public schools
of • the District of Columbia has de-
creased in the elementary grades and
increased in the high schools. The de-
crease in lower grades is explained as
the result of the lack of truant officers.
<3 A new manual training school for
colored pupils is to be built in Washing-
ton.
<3 An effort is being made in Oklahoma
to abolish the colored State College at
Langston.
<3 The colored people of Louisiana are
asking an appropriation for a normal
school in Louisiana.
*3 The sixth annual conference of teach-
ers in secondary colored schools of Vir-
ginia met at Virginia Union University.
<3 Many colored teachers’ associations
have been meeting in various Southern
and border States.
The trustees of the Jeancs fund have
expended $40,000 during the last year,
and together with the Slater fund are
working in 2,500 communities.
The Colored State Teachers’ Asso-
ciation of Columbia, S. C., adopted reso-
lutions which said: “We would therefore
respectfully implore the school author-
ities to take deeper interest in and more
careful insight into the operation of the
Negro schools, especially in the rural
section.
“We note, with regret, through a care-
ful reading of the advance sheets of
the report of superintendent of educa-
tion, that the Negro schools of the State
do not receive the care and attention
to which they are entitled by the consti-
tution and laws of the commonwealth.
“For instance, the terms are too short,
the salaries of the teachers insufficient,
the equipments inadequate, supervision
woefully lacking.
‘‘That we have carefully considered
the item, in the State superintendent's
report, relative to the small per capita
paid during the past year for the edu-
cation of the colored children, and feel
that the amount is inadequate to train
such citizens as the State of Carolina
requires, the constitution providing that
each child in the commonwealth shall
receive at least $3 for each school year.
The report shows that only $1.71 was
expended on each colored child for the
past school year.”
<3 Luther Long, a little colored boy,
made the best record last year of the
400 boys at the State Industrial School,
Golden, Col.
SOCIAL UPLIFT.
The Frederick Douglass Hospital has
succeeded in raising $294 more than the
$15,000 which it asked for. The Public
Ledger of Philadelphia has helped ma-
terially in raising the fund.
<2 It . is announced that the $100,000
building of the colored Y. M. C. A., in
the District of Columbia, will be ready
this month.
The building has four stories and a
basement, and contains forty-four dormi-
tories, a boys’ department, schoolrooms,
Bible-class apartments, a large lobby,
reading room, lunch room, gym-
nasium, swimming pool, locker rooms,
shower baths, bowling alleys, barber
shop and recreation rooms. The third
and fourth floors, containing the dormi-
tories, are already completed and they
are well appointed. When finished, the
building will be the finest of its kind for
colored people. Of the $100,000, which
it cost, the colored people of
Washington have paid more than $25,000;
John D. Rockefeller gave $25,000;
Julius Rosenwald gave $25,000; the Cen-
tral Association has raised about $11,000
to help secure the Rosenwald gift, and
the remaining $4,000 is being raised.
ALONG THE
COLOR LINE
141
q The colored Y. M. C. A. of Columbus.
O., has collected $4,363 toward its new
building.
The colored colleges of Little Rock,
Ark., are beginning a co-operative social-
service movement.
<] Governor Dix of New York is again
being asked to muster in a colored regi-
ment, which has already been formed.
q William F. Abbott has been made jail-
keeper at the Raymond Street Jail,
Brooklyn, at a salary of $1,200 a year.
q The new St. John’s Congregational
Church at Springfield, Mass., has club-
rooms for girls and a memorial window
in memory of John Brown.
q A hospital known as Boyd's Infirmary,
with twenty rooms, two operating rooms
and two large surgical wards, has been
opened in Nashville, Tenn.
q A delegation of colored Philadelphians
have called on the new reform mayor
to offer their aid and ask his assistance.
They offer aid in ridding the city of the
low Negro dives which politicians have
planted in colored districts to seduce
the Negro voters. They ask aid "to make
it possible for colored people to obtain
employment along lines other than those
of beggarly paid menials, to which they
are now almost wholly restricted
throughout the North.”
The	further set forth that
growing discrimination against Negroes
is a most portentous phase of the entire
race situation in this country. In effect,
the petition asked for summary justice
being enforced for offenses committed by
"a vicious element” in the Negro race,
but fair dealing toward the better and
law-abiding Negro citizens.
q The colored people of Atlantic City
are elated because the new mayor, Harry
Bacharach, has appointed a colored law-
yer, I. H. Nutter, as a member of his
official cabinet.
q The Alabama Reformatory for Negro
Boys, founded and for years supported
by the colored women* of the State, has
been formally turned over to the State
authorities.
MEETINGS.
There has been unusually widespread
celebration of Emancipation Day, Janu-
ary 1, north, south and west.
q A meeting of the New York Peace
Society was held at the Hotel Astor to
hear reports from the First Universal
Races Congress.
q Governor Stubbs of Kansas made, the
welcoming speech to the Interstate Liter-
ary Association, which met at Wichita.
q The Tri-State Medical Association of
Colored Physicians meets at Jacksonville
this month.
q The Negro problem was discussed
during convocation week at Washington
by Prof. Albert E. Jenks, of the Uni-
versity of Minnesota, before the an-
thropologists. "Rural conditions in the
South” were discussed before the Ameri-
can Economic Association,
q Allen Chapel of Kansas City has es-
tablished shower baths and built a large
swimming pool. It also has a handball
court and a day nursery,
q The colored people of Chicago have
leased Mount Glenwood Grove for fifty
years. They propose to hold an annual
Chautauqua.
q Colored lawyers have formed a State
Bar Association in North Carolina,
q Colored farmers of the Brazos farms.
Texas, have organized a trading asso-
ciation by which they pool their cash and
trade with the lowest-bidding merchants,
q The new League on Urban Condition
Among Negroes, recently formed in
New York, is maintaining a probation
officer in the courts and trying to estab-
lish decent places of detention for. de-
linquent colored girls,
q The annual dinner of the colored min-
isters of Washington, D. C., has taken
place.
q L. A. Headen of New York City has
been flying at the Mineola aviation
grounds. He has now started south for
an exposition tour.
POLITICAL.
President Taft has again indicated his
hostility toward Negroes by signing an
executive order, providing that in the
case of all free rural delivery appoint-
ments, three eligibles shall be certified in
each instance to the appointing office in-
stead of one, as in the past. This appears
to be done for the purpose of preventing
colored men who pass the examinations
from being appointed,
q On account of discrimination against
colored civil servants in the general as-
sociations, the colored men are proposing
to form the National Association of
Afro-American Classified Federal Em-
ployees.
q Milton S. Malone has been appointed
postmaster at Hilltop, W. Va. He is the
second colored man to hold such a posi-
tion in the State.
q The annual message of Governor
Blease of South Carolina contained the
following passage:
Negro Lodges.
“I recommend that you pass some act,
like the Rucker bill, introduced a few
sessions ago, in regard to Negro lodges.
142
THE CRISIS
Much annoyance is being caused in va-
rious parts of the State by the organi-
zation of such lodges. Negroes who
commit crimes are given assistance in
escaping; money is raised to pay lawyers,
if the one charged with a crime is a
member of the lodge; therefore, such
lodges should be disbanded.
White Persons Teaching Negro
Children.
“It is recommended that you pass an
act prohibiting any white person from
teaching in Negro schools or teaching
Negro children. We boast of the fact
that we have no social equality in South
Carolina, yet white people are teaching
in Negro schools, who are associating
with the pupils and teaching them that
they are as good as white people, and are
instilling into their heads ideas of social
equality. Not long since a white woman
(and a good-looking one) was seen walk-
ing on a Negro school ground with one
arm around a Negro boy and the other
around a Negro girl. What do you ex-
pect to be the outcome of this kind of
conduct? Stop it, and stop it now.
Notaries Public.
“A proclamation was issued revoking
the commission of all notaries public.
You passed a new act and since 3,681
have been commissioned. While this has
been no hardship to any individual, for
any citizen ought to be willing to pay $2
per annum, much less $2 in whole for a
notary public commission, by doing this
I have made the State $7,473.25; have in-
jured no one, and got rid of all Negro
officeholders in the State.”
<3 The New Orleans (La.) Item says:
“Now comes the charge that black-and-
tan Republicans have been allowed to
register in the city by the hundreds.
Ordinarily the Democrats seek to prevent
Negroes from qualifying in the registra-
tion office. The charge is made that
these Negroes were permitted to regis-
ter at substations during the last few
days.
“It is further reported the Lily White
Republican leaders will get together
within a few days and take some action
relative to the primary they have called
for January 24. It is intimated that with
the large number of Negro registrations
reported the Negroes might be able to
outvote the Lily Whites in the January
24 primary. Hence the anxiety, as one
Republican put it Saturday night.”
THE CHURCH.
The missionaries. who are planning
The World in Cincinnati” exposition in
that city deemed it advisable to exclude
colored people from taking part. This
is raising a good deal of discussion in
the city. A colored committee called
upon the sponsors of the movement and
the chairman said that since two-thirds
of the missionary work of the world was
carried on among colored people, he did
not see why the colored churchmen
should be excluded from this project. He
asked: “Is not the Negro race in the
world?”
The Reverend J. C. Roberts, a colored
clergyman, has been made Vice-Modera-
tor of the Binghamton, N. Y. and Vicinity
Ministerial Association.
*0 A $20,000 colored Catholic church is
about to be erected in Milwaukee.
<3 A colored Y. M. C. A. institute has
been held at Selma, Ala. Fifty delegates
were present.
ART.
The National Association of Musical and
Art Clubs had its annual meeting in New
York City. Twenty clubs in different
sections of the country were presented
for membership. Some of the most
prominent musicians and art patrons of
the race are members of the executive
board, of which Mrs. Harriet Gibbs
Marshall is president.
•J Mr. R. Augustus Lawson, pianist, was
the chosen soloist at the concert given
January 2 by the Hartford Philharmonic
Orchestra in Hartford, Conn. His piece
was Sairit-Saens’ “G Minor Concerto,”
and, according to the reviewers, the
pianist made an excellent impression. “It
was a brilliant production. The orchestra
seemed much inspired and of great sym-
pathy. The soloist was full of broad
expression, full of power and grasp; grace
R. AUGUSTUS LAWSON
ALONG THE
COLOR LINE
143
and beauty of arrangement generally dis-
tinguish Saint-Saens’ compositions and a
certain fine intellectuality which gives
them flavor. Mr. Lawson was very suc-
cessful in making those features apparent
and yet he infused a certain sweep and
force that lifted the composition into un-
usual dignity and strength." Mr. Law-
son spent last summer abroad, where he
had the opportunity of knowing Ossip
Gabrilowitsch, the Russian pianist, who
has spoken of Mr. Lawson as a highly
gifted pianist, and the great master,
Lcschetizky of Vienna, who mentions the
beautiful work of the artist.
Cj Irene L. McCoy, in the Fellowship
Herald, mentions the following little-
known Negro writers: Mohammed Koti
of the 15th Century; Ahmen Baba of the
16th Century and Abderrahman es Sadi
of the 17th Century.
<3 “The American Negroes possess what
has been called the ‘harmonic ear/"
writes Natalie Curtis in .the Craftsman.
“Though utterly without training, the
Negroes improvise alto, tenor and bass
parts to their songs with entire ease, and
a whole Negro chorus will spontaneously
break into harmony of real interest to
the musician as well as of beauty.
“In the tobacco factories of the South
and in the fields I have heard ignorant
Negroes who seemed nearly related to
their primitive African progenitors sing
four-part harmony of a richness and
charm truly amazing."
<1 On December 20 and 21, 1911, the
“Messiah" was presented by the Uni-
versity Choral Society of Howard Uni-
versity. Washington, D. C. The soloists
'were Mrs. Martha B. Anderson, soprano,
of Chicago, 111.; Miss Lulu V. Childers,
contralto, of Washington, D. C.; Roland
\Y. Hayes, tenor, of Boston, Mass., and
C. C. Clarke, baritone, of New York,
N.	Y. The accompanist was Miss Maude
L. Young.
The Music Study Club, an association
of amateur musicians of Springfield,
O.	, has just completed a year’s study
of “Early Music of All Nations." The
program, admirably planned, included
“Music of the American Indians" and
“Negro Music and Sources.”
<3 “Talks of Indian Life," by Edward S.
Curtis, author of “The North American
Indian," have been made doubly valuable
by the introduction of Indian music, by
Henry F. Gilbert, who has taken Indian
themes and worked them out in musical
form. Mr. Gilbert has succeeded in mak-
ing a permanent record of the Indian
songs and melodies.
<J “The Garden of Allah," dramatized by
Mary Anderson and Robert Hichens. is
now being presented in New York City.
The scene is the Sahara, Arabian women
take part as dancers, and Laibi, a colored
flute player, has been brought to the
United States from Biskra to play in the
production.
SCIENCE.
Prof. Berry of London, England, in a
recent lecture said that from what we
know of man’s mental powers, and of
what could be done with physical cul-
ture, it could be affirmed that man was
not deteriorating. Whether the future
race was to be the white man was an-
other, and altogether graver, question.
Statistics proved indisputably that the
white man in England, France, Italy,
Australia, and also, but to a much less
extent, in Germany, was slowly but
surely committing racial suicide. Then
would come the day of the yellow man,
and the history of the invasion of
Europe by Neolithic man would be re-
peated. Not perhaps in our day, not
perhaps even in the day of our/grand-
children, but come it would, if indeed the
Caucasian inhabitants of Europe, Amer-
ica, Australia and elsewhere did not learn
the lessons which anthropology had to
teach them.
<3 Sir Harry Johnston in an article in the
Contemporary Review says: “We should
bear in mind that nowhere in the world
exists a pure white race, in whose ancient
ancestry there has been no mixture what-
ever with the Mongol, the Negro, or the
Dravidian, and that, perhaps, a white
race, which receives no rill of blood from
the other human types from time to
time may die of physical degeneration.
For myself, I seem to see the prospect
of great racial developments in Asia by
mixture of blood."
Scott Elliott in the “Story of Atlan-
tis" says: “The people of Atlantis were
a giant race, many of them towering up
ten and twelve feet in height. They were
a dark-skinned people, ranging in com-
plexion from that of the Chinese to that
of the Negro. They were a progressive
warlike people, and the above authors
say their descendants are spread all over
the earth, from China to Egypt and
Mexico, Alaska and Siberia."
CRIME.
The New York Herald reports thirty-
five lynchings for 1911; a Washington
dispatch reports sixty for the same year
and another paper reports seventy-one.
As a matter of fact there were without
reasonable doubt over one hundred lynch-
ings in the United States last year, not
counting lynchings like the burning of
the family in Tennessee. Again this year,
as in other years, very few of those
lynched were charged with attacks on
women; eighteen out of the seventy-one
is the most reliable report this year.
144
THE CRISIS
q The nation celebrated Christmas in
Christian style by a lynching in Balti-
more arising out of a quarrel and murder
in a saloon.
q Three white men have been arrested
for the burning of Benjamin Pettigrew
and his two children in Tennessee. Two
of them have signed a confession which
begins as follows: “To the, Publick, and,
the, honer, cort, of, decaturville, Tenn;
we was assoated with Mr. J. M. Hill he
read the Bible, to us, and, talked to us.
about our soles, and, all so Read To Us,
in St. Mathews the 10th Chapter, and,
the, 26 Verce, that thire was nothing
covered but, what would, be uncovered
and nothing hid what would, be knowen
and, he talked to us about telling, the
truth at the blessed Jesues,-said that to
tell the, truth and, bleave the truth and
it would make us, free and we do know
that we did a great rong but god has
forgive us, as Mr, Hill, had us to go to
god and, he has forgive us, and now
we with up stretched, ormes, ask the
clemences, and mercies, of, the, People,
and, the, cort, to do all they cane, for,
us, as we, air both maried boyes and, i
Georg Shelton aire onley 18 yares, old.
and, never. Had, the, chence to go to
school and, was raised up by a Good
Fother. And, Oh, My, Der, ole, Mother,
and my, Wife, and, Little, Baby! If, i
Had, Onley, of, Knowen at the start
what all this would of, cause, me, i would
Not, of, done, it, for, aney amount, of,
Money, But, Mr, Lige, Scott, tole, me,
to; That ole Ben ort to be, Killed, and,
got, out, of, the neighborhood. And Joha
Bailey, is, A Brothernlaw of, George
Shelton, and, is, 24, yares, old, and His,
Parints, Died, when he was a Little Boy
and, he, was raised up heare and, yonder,
and, kik from Piller, to Post and, we,
Both, have, no, Bgacation and, never,
relised what a black Path, of, sin we
had been travling, till Mr. J. M. Hill.
Read, the Bible to us, And, Praid, for.
and with us, and, then, we begin to
Relise what we had done.”
q Judge Holt of the United States Dis-
trict Court in New York says that there
are approximately 100,000 unhung mur-
derers of the lynching type in the United
States and that there has been no time
in many years in which crimes of vio-
lence have been more ripe than in recent
years. With regard to lynching he says:
“If, at the outset of an attempt at lynch-
ing or of a strikers’ mob, half a dozen or
a dozen men were arrested for rioting,
were tried the next day, and were sent
to the penitentiary for a month, or a
fortnight, or even for a' week, rioting
would stop.”
q At Muldrow, Okla., a Negro was
lynched for alleged murder and criminal
assault. The judge and prosecuting at-
torney refused to take any steps.
q At Wilmington, Del., six Negroes and
one white man convicted of larceny were
severely whipped at the public whipping
post.
q President Taft has commuted the life
sentence of two Negroes who have been
exonerated from the crime charged
against them. They were, however, Brit-
ish subjects and not Americans.
q In Kentucky the “first white man” has
been sentenced to death for killing a
Negro.
q In Savannah, Ga., several years ago
a white woman was murdered. Several
Negroes were immediately arrested. It
was afterward proven that the woman’s
husband committed the crime and the
last of the colored men has finally been
acquitted.
q In Oklahoma three white men with a
certain number of hired colored accom-
plices tried to get rid of two colored
children who inherited $250,000 worth
of property. The children were blown
up by dynamite while they slept. One
of the white men was sentenced to life
imprisonment and one, a wealthy oil
operator, was acquitted. One of the
Negroes was imprisoned for life and the
third white man and two other Negroes
are yet to be tried.
q In Topeka, Kan., a colored schoolboy
was arrested for throwing paper wads,
one of which struck a white girl.
Neither the girl nor her. parents ap-
peared against the boy, but he was given
ninety days in the jail. The real animus
back of the case was an attempt to make
capital out of it for separation of the
races in school.
q A very curious case has occurred in
New York. The Pullman Car Company
has paid Claude R. Lewis $37,500 dam-
ages for injuries to his daughter. The
story given out is that the daughter was
injured by a Pullman porter, but the-
porter has not been arrested, and there
is a suspicion that he is being made the
scapegoat for someone else’s crimes.
q The police court of Savannah, Ga.,
collected $25,000 in petty fines last year,
chiefly from colored people. Many
Southern States use this kind of police
blackmail as a large source of revenue.
q Representative Kendall of Iowa
knocked a white man down in Washing-
ton recently because the fellow had up-
set a basket of laundry belonging to an
old colored washerwoman.
q City Marshal Body of Pavo, Ga., re-
plying to certain Negroes who were pro-
testing illegal arrests, said: “Blow out
the brains of Negroes who complain.”
ALONG THE
COLOR LINE
145
COURTS.
The result of the riot and lynching at
Newark, O., July 10, 1910, has been
thirty convictions and two acquittals.
There were twelve cases which were not
prosecuted and five went up on error.
One person was convicted of murder in
the second degree, thirteen for man-
slaughter, seven for riot and nine • for
assault and battery. All of which proves
that it is dangerous to lynch a white man
in Ohio.
Cj The Appellate Court of New York
State has sustained the $10,000 verdict
secured by William Chinn against the
Ferro Construction Company for injuries
while at work.
<3 In Richmond, Va., the colored Elks
apparently are about to win their right
to existence and obtain damages for the
injunction secured against them.
<3 The Postmaster-General has decided
that postal cards bearing pictures of
lynchings are unmailable.
<1 In Georgia a colored boy was con-
victed of assault with intent to kill. The
Court of Appeals in reviewing his case
held: “If one whose premises are in-
vaded by a riotous mob, who lay siege
to his habitation and continue their riot-
ing, shoots into the mob and wounds
one of its members, he does not commit
the offense of assault with intent to mur-
der; and this law is applicable, irrespect-
ive of any racial differences between the
parties.” -----------------
THE GHETTO.
The Central Y. M. C. A. at St. Louis
has been used for a mass meeting to
propose a segregation ordinance for St.
Louis.
*3 The following letter was sent to the
colored dentist who is building a house
in a white neighborhood in Denver,
Col.: “You have doubtless lived long
enough to know that the American peo-
ple, when aroused, are not to be trifled
with, and while I am not predicting vio-
lence to either yourself or property, you
certainly are aware that either or both
might occur.
“Legally you may be right, but in re-
ality you cannot help but know you are.
wrong, and unless I am very badly mis-
taken, a particularly brilliant and suc-
cessful man of your own race, Booker
T. Washington, has made it an invariable
rule to never intrude where he is not
wanted, if he can possibly avoid it.
“Personally, I am only too glad to
grant you all the privileges due an
American citizen, but I do object to you
enjoying those privileges in an exclu-
sively white community.”
In Philadelphia Miss Emily Dinwiddie
shows that Negroes pay 37 cents per
room per month more rent than the
Italians, and 33 cents more than the other
nationalities. A charity agent says that
she finds it most difficult to place a Ne-
gro family in a small apartment without
paying excessive rent. Id houses with
furnished rooms Negroes pay from $1
to $3 per month more than whites pay
for the same kind of room. Rent is gen-
erally a larger item with the poor Negro
than with the poor white. The average
rent for Negroes per month, when only
one family occupied the house, was, ac-
cording to Miss Dinwiddie, $12.92, while
the Italians paid $7.99, and the Jews and
others $8.78. When two or more families
occupied the house the rent was $7.48
for Negroes, $5.51 for Italians and $5.18
for Jews.
At Paris, Tex., one Negro letter car-
rier resigned after one day’s work, be-
cause few persons in Paris would accept
United States mail from his hands. He
was succeeded by another Negro—the
next available on the eligible list for the
place. Hundreds of letters were received
by Postmaster Dickerson protesting
against mail being delivered by a Negro
carrier.
<| Southern Congressmen are again sug-
gesting “Jim Crow” legislation for the
District of Columbia, and it is said that
legislation for excluding all Asiatic races
is being strongly urged.
<3 In-St. Paul, Minn., the Great Northern
Express Company employed a young
colored student of the University of
Minnesota during the holiday rush. He
was, among other things, required to
take valuable packages and check them
in with the other express companies.
The checking clerk of the Adams Ex-
press Company refused to wait on the
boy because he was colored. The local
manager of the Adams - Express Com-
pany, when complained to, justified the
discrimination.
<3 Dr. W. J. Thompkins of Kansas City,
who has been suing the M. K. & T.
Railroad for ejecting him from a Pull-
man berth, has lost his case in the lower
court. He proposes to appeal it.
<3 The Great Northern Railway Company
has just sent to its employees the follow-
ing rule concerning migration to Canada:
570—People of the Chinese race must
not be ticketed to any point in Canada
or Cuba, or to a point in the United
States via a route passing through
Canada.
Foreigners will not be admitted into
Canada except when en route direct from
their own country, unless in the mean-
time they have become naturalized citi-
zens of the United States, and in no
event will they be admitted unless they
have $25 per capita in hand. Colored
people will not be admitted under any
circumstances.
MEN OF THE
MONTH
,.ffLA-nwrH-^J
ALEXANDER WALTERS
The presentation of a loving cup to
Dr. Alexander Walters, bishop of
the A. M. E. Zion Church, which took
.BISHOP ALEXANDER WALTERS
place recently in Washington, D.
was a graceful tribute to an energe
man. Bishop Walters was born in Kt
tucky in 1858; he received a comm
school training, became a pastor in H
and was elected bishop in 1892. Bish
Walters has become well known as c
of the radical leaders of the color
people; he was long president of t
Afro-American Council and is a vi<
president and director of the N. A.
C. P. In the last presidential campai
he supported the Democratic ticket a
has since preached political indepei
ence to the Negroes. In the comi
campaign he may be expected to tak<
prominent part. Outside his own chui
he has occupied many positions of hor
and trust in religious circles, and is
genial, earnest man.
MELVILLE CHARLTON.
The recent appointment of Melville
Charlton as one of the organists at Union
Theological Seminary calls the attention of
the public to the work of this young man
of 28. Charlton was born in New
York, was educated in the public schools
and took a year in the College of the City
of New York. He then turned to the
study of music and won a five year scholar-
ship at the National Conservatory of Music.
After serving some years as assistant or-
ganist at St. Phillip’s, he served in a
similar position at the Religious School of
Temple Emanu-El, the richest synagogue
in America. Schirmer has just brought out
Mr. Charlton’s first published composi-
tion, and The Musical Courier calls him
“a young musician of promising talent.”
CAPTAIN CHARLES YOUNG, U.S.A.
Captain Charles Young, whose picture
is on our cover, was born in Kentucky
in 1868. He was appointed to West
Point Military Academy from Ohio in
1885, and was graduated as a lieutenant
in the army in 1889. He has served
with the 7th, 9th and 10th Cavalry and
25th Infantry. During the Spanish War
he was major of an Ohio battalion.
Afterward he was detailed to duty as
acting superintendent of the Sequoia and
Grant National Parks in California,
where his “interest and ability” were
especially commended in formal resolu-
MELVILLE CHARLTON
OPINION
147
tions by the Board of Trade of Visalia,
which declared that “by his energy and
enthusiasm and business qualities dis-
played, the money set aside for improve-
ments of the parks was most wisely and
economically expended.”
In 1904 Captain Young was sent to
Hayti, and thence twice to the Philip-
pines. In the absence of the colonel he
reviewed the regiment—the first occur-
rence of the kind in the history of the
United States army. On several other
occasions he had command of the regi-
ment.
Captain Young is now being examined
at Fort Riley for his majority and is de-
tailed to go as United States military
attache in Liberia. He is married and
has two children.
The other colored officers in the army
are as follows: Lieutenant-Colonel Al-
len Allensworth (retired); Major Jno.
R. Lynch (retired); Major Wm. T. An-
derson (retired); Captain Geo. W.
Priolean, Captain Theophilius G. Steward
(retired); First Lieutenant Benj. O.
Davis; First Lieutenant John E. Green;
First Lieutenant W. W. E. Gladden;
First Lieutenant Oscar J. VV. Scott;
First Lieutenant Louis A. Carter.
CHARITY ABROAD.
Politicians may be, indeed, are some-
times said to be, deficient in humor, and
the recent debates in Congress over the
abrogation of the treaty with Russia
seem to bear out this statement. That
Jewish-American citizens should have
full rights in Russia and that the Czar’s
atrocities should call forth the indignant
protest of every decent-minded citizen
goes without saying, but it is difficult to
see how our honorable legislative body
preserved a straight face over the fervent
declarations, especially impassionated
from Southern representatives that dis-
crimination because of race is un-Ameri-
can and not to be tolerated. In a widely
quoted speech by Senator Root, for ex-
ample, we find him saying that per-
haps the demand that Jewish-American
citizens be admitted to Russia may result
in the exclusion of all Americans.
“That,” he says, “in some respects would
be unfortunate, but, Mr. President, it
would be better than the present. It
is better that there should not be any
discrimination which constitutes _ two
sharply separated classes of our citizens.
I would rather have one great body of
American citizens who have no right to
enter a foreign land than to have two
bodies of American citizens, one. of which
has the right under our treaties to enter
and the other of which has no right.”
The New York Evening Post, which
alone of all the white newspapers sees
the humor of the situation, observes:
“It is encouraging to note that all the
Southern representatives voted strongly
against anything like ‘discriminating be-
tween American citizens on the ground
of race’—in Russia. The Senate resolu-
tions introduced by Senator Culberson
of Texas recites broadly that ‘the people
of the United States assert as a funda-
mental principle that the rights of its
citizens shall not be impaired at home
or abroad because of race.’ This is
good news for the Negroes of the South,
for, of course, Southern leaders would
not attempt to do more for the handful
of American Jews who wish to travel
in Russia than they would for millions
of American citizens in their own land.”
The Macon (Ga.) Telegraph objects
to these remarks as “sarcastic” and
besides, it says, bringing its scientific
learning to the front, the Post “misses
the point,” which is this: “The persecu-
tion of the Jews in Russia is religious
rather than racial, and in any case ‘na-
tionality’ rather than ‘race’ is the more
proper term to be employed in this
connection. The Russians and Jews
belong to the same grand division of
humanity and in the larger sense are
really of the same race of men. White
men and Negroes, on the other hand,
belong to two of the four or five totally
distinct grand divisions of the human
species.”
The Telegraph does not go farther,
we regret to say. and point out at just
what distance of relationship one has
the right to insult, oppress and lynch.
Little is said on this head in the
white press, but the Rev. Theodosius
S.	Tyng sums up the situation in a
ringing letter to the Boston Herald on
the necessity of clean hands and a
clear head. “That Jews are ill-treated
in Russia,” he says, “that American
citizens are unjustly discrimip''*^
148
THE CRISIS
against and that these things ought to
end is indisputable. But there are two
objections against our present method
of attempting to end them.
“The first is that we do not come
with clean hands. We discriminate
against our own citizens. In the South
we have ‘Jim Crow’ cars and ‘grand-
father clauses’ aimed against the Negro.
In the North we have worse, a shutting
out of Negroes by popular prejudice
from all but a few occupations, thus
denying them opportunity to show
whether they are our inferiors or not.
We discriminate also (and with equal
blindness) against foreigners. We ex-
haust the resources of diplomacy to keep
out of our country laborers from Japan,
whose people are not inferior in natural
endowment to any other, and from
which it would be pretty safe to say
that no illiterate ever came to this
country.
“A clear head is also desirable in
dealing with international difficulties.
But what is chiefly revealed in this
precipitate and tumultuous denunciation'
of the treaty with Russia is a feeling
that any stick will do to beat a dog,
and that indignant virtue is too virtuous
and too indignant to consider what head
is going to be hit by the stick, our
own or the other, or perhaps various
others.”
The papers run by colored people, of
course, draw the deadly parallel: “There
are no two nations that are so much
alike as America and Russia on race
antipathy,” says the St. Louis Advance.
“The Russian districts and segregates the
Jew, and, at times, officially slaughters
him; the American alleges the most
hideous crimes against the Negro, none
proved by his own established tribunals,
arrests, disarms, imprisons him and
calls forth whole communities to see
the black helpless victim scorched,
burned, riddled with bullets or vivisected
and mutilated to suit the bloody crav-
ings of a savage mob. America places
herself in a very inconsistent attitude
when she demands that Russia cease
proscribing the Jew when she is prac-
ticing wholesale proscription upon her
own native citizens—the Negro—in
the United States.”
The Cincinnati Union heartily ap-
proves the course of the President and
adds: “The question now uppermost in
the minds of all American colored
people is: Why does our great Presi-
dent not use similar haste and courage
in demanding that ten millions of his
subjects should receive fair treatment
here at home; that they no longer be
mobbed, slaughtered and burnt almost
within sound and sight of the White
House?
“Why?”
A SOUTHERNER’S PROTEST.
The Daily Observer of Charlotte,
N.	C., is one of the Southern papers
which occasionally fights for justice for
the colored man. Our association sent
the editor of the Observer one of
our anti-lynching circulars containing, m
addition to various facts about this
crime, the two pictures which appeared
in “The Burden” of the January Crisis.
In reply we received a letter expressing
the editor’s indignation at the awful
story and enclosing an editorial sug-
gested'by the circular. We quote it at
length:
“Lynching is the greatest evil from
which this country has suffered. It is
a reproach to the nation, and particu-
larly to the people of the South, where
the mob has so often wreaked its fear-
ful vengeance upon its victims, not
always for the commission of the ‘un-
pardonable crime,’ but for offences of
lesser magnitude, offences for which the
death penalty is not required by any
civilized country in the world. During
the last six months in the United States
fifty-one men have been put to death by
lynching. A great many of them, we
have not the least doubt, were guilty of
the most horrible crime of which the
world knows anything, but many of
them doubtless were not worthy of
death and none of them should have
been put to death without due process
of law. In the last twenty-six years
2,458 Negroes have been lynched in the
United States, and not one of the men
taking part in these lynchings has' been
punished, and few of them, although
they must have been well known in the
community where they committed their
crimes, have ever been summoned by
the law to give an account of their vio-
lation of the law.
“We write long essays about the
cruelty of the people in foreign coun-
tries; we are shocked at the barbarity
of the Italians in Tripoli; we say long
prayers in our churches and synagogues
praising ourselves to the Almighty; but
we do nothing to stop the fearful enor-
mities of Judge Lynch and his crowd.
This thing cannot go on forever; it
should not have gone on at all, and
particularly in the South, where white
people are now absolutely in control of
all the machinery of the law; where they
select the juries and judges and prose-
cutors; where they alone are responsible
for the execution of the law; and it is
to our everlasting shame and reproach
that in any of the Southern States there
should be the lynching of any human
being, whatever the color of his skin or
the enormity of his crime. We need not
concern ourselves about the occasional
lynchings in Pennsylvania, Delaware,
Indiana, Illinois and Ohio and in the'
far Western States; our responsibility
OPINION
149
is for the crimes committed within our
own b6rders and by our own people.
“In a circular just issued, we suppose
by the Anti-Lynching League of New
York [National Association for the Ad-
vancement of Colored People], two pic-
tures are given of typical lynchings; one
in Oklahoma and the other that is not
fully identified, but it is gruesome
enough in its appearance to excite the
indignation of any man of right feeling.
This circular contains quite a number
of extracts from newspapers commenting
upon the lynching evil and quotes the
statement of Governor Biease, of South
Carolina, about the Honea Path horror,
that rather than use the power of his
office to prevent the white men from
punishing the Negro at Honea Path, he
‘would have resigned his office and gone
to Honea Path and led the mob.’
“That was a horrible thing for the
governor of any civilized State to say.
Another great man in this country, the
same being Theodore Roosevelt, former
President of the United States, in a.
recent article in the Outlook, of which
he is contributing editor, made this weak
and pitiful plea for the mob: ‘Dreadful
though it is for the mob spirit to be
aroused in the community by such a
crime, it would be even worse if the
community did not feel the fury of in-
dignation which produces the mob spirit.’
This is encouraging the mob spirit and
this is the sort of namby-pamby talk
that has encouraged the 'fury of indigna-
tion’ which has made the mob possible
in this civilized land. With Governor-
Blease, in South Carolina, in sympathy
with the mob, and with Colonel Roose-
velt, in New York, excusing the mob
spirit on the ground that it is produced
by the ‘fury of indignation,’ we must im-
press the law-abiding people of the
United States as to one of the elements
from which we must free ourselves if the
law is to be respected and its violation
is to be punished.’’
LYNCHING.
A curious misstatement is going the
rounds of the press which places the
lynchings of last year at thirty-five.
The Crisis has record of twice as many
as that, and we do not pretend to have
collected the full number. Several papers
comment on the figures. “We would
like to believe,*’ says the Chattanooga
Times, “that the decrease is due to an
appreciable advance in sentiment for the
‘due course of law,’ and in some com-
munities we are justified in reaching
such a conclusion. But there are occa-
sions not of infrequent occurrence that
present the discouraging evidences of
the same old savage sentiment which, in
circumstances of peculiar or- extraordi-
nary excitement, may be expected to
exhibit itself, especially where there is
a weak or vacillating constabulary."
The Louisville Courier-Journal sug-
gests that more can be done to lower
the figures. “As a cure for lynching an
ounce of prevention, such as a removal
law furnishes, is worth a pound of prose-
cution. The Kentucky legislature is in
session. The Courier-Journal invites its
attention to the opportunity to do a
signal service to the State and to pro-
claim to the world a desire, to see lynch-
ing put down and the State and county
payrolls relieved of the incumbrance of
peace officers who are cowards or sym-
pathizers with hoodlumism. To the
short sighted who believe in lynching
in cases of assault it may be of interest
to know that of the thirty-five lynchings
in America in 1911 only eleven were for
alleged crimes against women."
The Boston Herald, in a long editorial
on the general subject, says: “Persons
who do not take the usual attitude of
the South toward the Negro are
promptly set down as ‘not understand-
ing the race question.' An attempt is
thus made to estop any Northerner from
expressing an opinion. Nor are the
skirts of the Northerners much clearer
of this horror. The recent affair in
Coatesville, Pa., following a long line of
similar outrages, including a very atro-
cious affair a few years ago in Spring-
field, 111., raises the question whether in
proportion to population the North is
really entitled to preach to the South at
all of the evils of lynching.
“And still the horror persists,, wher-
ever the dishonor lies. New and dra-
matic ways of wreaking vengeance
against Negro suspects are of almost
daily report. It has taken many cen-
turies to evolve from primitive barbar-
ism a government of law; from that we
are now suffering in this country a very
serious relapse. To suppose that the
unfortunate black will long remain the
only victim of it, even were they so
to-day, would be a very serious mistake.
The whole ghastly homicidal record is
serving as a text book to the millions
of natives of Southern Europe and
Western Asia who are to-day pouring
into this country. They are not wholly
to be blamed for inferring that violence
is the American way.’’
SOME LABOR COMPLAINTS.
When a hurricane not long ago de-
stroyed much property on Sea Island.
S. C., a fund was raised for the suf-
ferers. The colored men who lost their
all in that disaster have received little or
no help, and it is openly said that they
will not, because white planters on the
mainland wish to hire these destitute
laborers on their own terms. A long
controversy has been going on in the
I 50
THE CRISIS
Charleston News and Courier on the
disinclination of the colored people to
work, but a colored newspaper, the
Charleston Messenger, asks what is
meant by “work”:
**A man connected with the govern-
ment went down to inspect the damages
and gave a fair and straightforward
report of the disaster. Shortly after-
ward. a few men here and there who had
planted considerable cotton and a mill
here and there which needed fifty or a
hundred hands, published their needs.
Then came a statement that the suffer-
ing people could get work. The man
who attempts to make a thousand people
suffer for the sake of getting one or two
hundred to go a hundred miles away
from home without anything but a
promise is a dangerous citizen to any
community. There are two sides to
every picture."
The Messenger thinks that if the
farmers guaranteed the fare from Sea
Island and a living wage while the men
were on the plantations, there would be
no difficulty in getting laborers. Then
the editor makes this comment on the
general situation: “The long commu-
nication from Clarendon County, almost
two columns on Monday, attempting to
destroy the Negro, put up one of the
best defenses for him we have ever
read, and it is that article that has inter-
ested us more in this matter. We have
been believing that the Negro was
really guilty of not working as he should,
but since that article we stand ready
to congratulate the Negro for the prog-
ress he has made on the farm and we
arc a little surprised that the News and
Courier hasn’t done so, too, before now.
“When a white man, a farmer of broad
experience, tells the public that the
Negroes in South Carolina are planting
more acres of land than the white man,
and that many of the Negroes last year
made only one bale of cotton and that
the same Negroes this year have made
four and five bales, and have made them-
selves so independent that they are not
in a hurry to pick it out so as to help
the white man pick his out, he is making
no argument against the Negro not want-
ing to work. Upon this we rest our
case for the Negro and ask the News
and Courier, the Florence Times and all
those who are complaining about the
Negro not working to explain this
paradox.”
which should quicken the whole public-
school system of the South. "What is
needed next is a similar school for col-
ored teachers, and the want and oppor-
tunity are so great that it is hard to see
how some of our great p
hilanthropists
can have overlooked it. Inhere are those
in the South who criticise the educated
Negroes. But how few the latter are!
And as for the teachers, no one who has
not come face to face with a group of
Negro rural school teachers can have
any real idea of their unfitness for their
Being themselves graduates of
one-teacher schools, few if
work,
crossroad
any are masters of the English language.
The summer schools for teachers, wher-
ever held, are attended by eager men
and women whose lamentable deficiency
is not offset by their thirst for learning
or by their desire to be of service upon
most meagre wages. But the great gifts
for education in the South are latterly
flowing largely in the direction of the
whites.
“In this connection it is interesting to
note that the initial gifts of the trustees
of the Phelps-Stokes fund established by
the will of the late Miss Caroline Phelps
Stokes have gone to the Universities of
Virginia and Georgia. They have donated
$12,500 for a fellowship in each of those
institutions, the holders thereof to make
a scientific and also practical study ‘of
the Negro and of his adjustments to
American civilization.’ While some of
the educated colored people will feel like
endowing scholarships elsewhere for the
scientific study *of the white and of his
failure to adjust himself to American
civilization by lynchings from Coates-
ville to the Gulf and his persistent nulli-
fication of the Constitution in regard to
suffrage, the experts will all agree that
these gifts are usefully bestowed. The
South does need to approach this prob-
lem—and the North as well—in a purely
scientific spirit. Here is primarily a
great governmental question, for half or
more of the bitterness of the situation
would disappear if law and order were
maintained and absolute justice applied
in the courts to both races. The Negro
has nothing to fear from the bringing
out of the truth about his generally law-
abiding character and his marvelous rise
in fifty years, which no less a person
than Colonel Henry Watterson has de-
clared to be without an historical
parallel.”
WHITE- AND BLACK TEACHERS.
On December 26 a gift of half a mil-
lion dollars to the Peabody College for
Teachers, at Nashville, was announced
in connection with the final distribution
of the great Peabody fund. The New
York Evening Post says that this gift
will insure a magnificent and well-
endowed school for white teachers
*1 The Survey, published by the Asso-
ciated Charities of New York, brought
together in a recent number some opin-
ions on' the meaning of the McNamara
case. We quote a few paragraphs from
the contribution of Mrs. Florence Kelley
of the Consumers’ League, who is a
member of our association’s executive
committee and one of our ablest and
most willing speakers.
OPINION
151
“No light can he shed on the present
situation,” says Mrs. Kelley, ’‘by treat-
ing it as an isolated episode. It is an
integral part of the whole texture of our
national life, and any constructive action
in regard to it must, in order to serve
a helpful purpose, be based on recogni-
tion of this fact. In a modern industrial
democracy the only preventive of vio-
lence is justice—political, social, indus-
trial. As a people we do not practice
justice and we pay the penalty in recur-
ring violence in diverse forms.
“In all of our States except six, women
are disfranchised; and Negroes are dis-
franchised increasingly in recent years,
in law and in fact. Accompaniments of
this injustice are white slavery, lynch
law and peonage—three horrifying forms
of violence incidental to our national
life.
“If women, Negroes ai\d alien immi-
grants were safeguarded in their human
rights; if the owners of the Asch Building
and every employer, the doors of whose
workrooms are locked, paid (in moneyi
not wjth their lives) for the men and
women burned in their buildings; if the
miners now entombed—death by en-
tombment is death by violence—had
been made safe in life and limb by their
employers under laws established by a
just people; if lynchers found certain
retribution; if no white slavers were par-
doned by the President in the rare cases
in which they are convicted; if justice
prevailed in our daily life—the outcry
and the surprise at the action of the Mc-
Namaras might be explained rationally.
“The real cause for surprise, the root
of the evil, is the infinite, supine, dogged
resignation of the masses of working
people under prevailing injustice.”
The following encouraging editorial
we reprint from the Roanoke (Va.)
Times: “In the acquittal of the Negroes
accused of the murder of the Stuarts in
Buckingham County there is another
triumph of Virginia justice; and' a tri-
umph over local prejudice and, possibly,
some local cupidity. The Stuarts were
brothers, supposed to be misers, living
together in a rather lonely house. They
were found dead, their bodies partly con-
sumed in the ruins of their home. Evi-
dently murder, arson and robbery had
been committed. Two or three Negroes
were arrested accused of the crimes.
The strongest evidence against them was
by members of their own race. One col-
ored boy said he was an eyewitness.
The accused were convicted and sen-
tenced to die. They appealed and the
Supreme Court gave them a new trial.
They secured change of venue to Rich-
mond and a jury of white men of that
city acquitted them. The evidence was
direct, but obviously untrustworthy.
The defence was conducted by J. L.
Lee, of Lynchburg; and in our opinion
no lawyer ever has given a better illus-
tration of the lawyer's highest functions
and duties than he did in this case. He
gave all the power of his mind and learn-
ing and much of his time—and he
is a high-priced lawyer—to defending
through three hard trials and represent-
ing in the highest court poor and obscure
people.”
<3 The Dallas Express has heard a
report that 150 white university men
are making a study of the Southern
Negro and that “Negro Life in the
South,” a book written by Dr. Weath-
erford, is to be taken as a basis of the
research. “That’s queer,” comments this
paper, "the Dallas Express would rec-
ommend a better basis—that basis is the
Negro himself. As a beginning of the
research we recommend that, the 150 uni-
versity men put in about a year of pray-
erful study on themselves and another
year on their own race, for it is a lament-
able fact that the vast majority of
Southern white men have never yet
believed a single word they ever heard
of the common fatherhood of God and
the universal brotherhood of man. Until
a man can believe this doctrine little
importance need attach to his observa-
tions of the Negro, or, as for that mat-
ter, anybody else.”
<jl The St. Louis Mirror, a single-tax
paper, commenting on the refusal of the
Chicago single-tax conference to draw
the color line at their banquet, says:
“The single-tax philosophy is for all
men, for a man’s chance for every man,
white or black or yellow or brown. That
philosophy recognizes that the color
issue is largely the white man's growing
fear that the colored man will get his
job. That philosophy would free the
earth so that there would be jobs for all
men and some jobs left over.”
Q From a Richmond paper comes this
contribution to the gaiety of nations in
the form of a letter from a lady of an
aristocratic turn of mind: “No daughter
of the Confederacy will be a suffragette.
No veteran will permit female Negro suf-
frage—if it brings on another war. For
when the cook comes to the meeting and
puts on her bonnet quick, and goes to
the polls and votes for Dr. Washington
as President of the United States, or ‘you
gets another cook,’ the women will be in
the saddle with saber and pistol galore.”
<J The conviction of one of the men who
lynched Carl Etherington in Newark,
Ohio, has called forth some comment as
proof that the country still upholds jus-
tice .in spite of Coatesville. The Chi-
cago Tribune alone puts its finger on the
significant fact. “It must be noted,” it
says, “that in Ohio the victim was white*
in Pennsylvania he was black.”
I have been rather fascinated by
the poetic dream of the supremacy
of Africa to institute the reign of
peace zuhen the conquering race of
the Anglo-Saxons is ended.
—FREDERIC HARRISON.
LIGHT.
WHEN the trustees of the
Phelps-Stokes fund gave
two Southern universities
$12,500 each to endow a fellowship
for the study of the Negro they did
well. For many decades there has
been a venerable tradition that the
South “knows” the Negro better than
others. Gradually, however, it is
dawning even on the white South
that there is nothing in mere
physical distance half so separating
as the artificial social, economic and
racial barriers erected in the South
since the war, and that the ignorance
of the white South as to the life,
hurts and dreams of the darker half
of their world is, in some respects,
both phenomenal and disgraceful.
Take, for instance, this letter from
a Southern woman who has read
The Crisis:
“The Negro is a child, incompetent to
right his own wrongs, but wonderfully
susceptible to inspirational teaching.
As a race he has a childlike conceit
and thoroughly enjoys being ‘in the
limelight.’ He has the untutored’s
love of the morbid, revels in the sen-
sational, and under praise wisely ad-
ministered gives forth his best efforts.
Some of the crime committed by the
Negro is undoubtedly due to the de-
sire to attract public attention. ‘If
fame cannot be won, infamy can,’ is
the subconscious conclusion of some
Negro criminals—as it is with some
white criminals. It seems to me that
the best and most practical philan-
thropy that can be performed for
the race is to cease discussing him as
a problem and consider him as a
child whose future career is to be
shaped and molded by wise disciplin-
ary educational methods.”
Consider for a moment this extraor-
dinary judgment: “The Negro” and
“A Child!” Ten million people tossed
nonchalantly into one mold with one
estimate, one final and eternal judg-
ment. One could not find ten million
dogs, much less ten million men,
whom one definition would fit.
The difficulty is, of course, that
this honest woman knows and can
know but one or few types of Negro.
Her observation is confined to her
kitchen, the almshouse and the
chances of the street. Of the black
man as a' man, of the black woman
as a woman, she has almost no
experience, and by grace of the color
line can have no experience. Her
ignorance is all the greater because
it is not known to be ignorance, but
parades as deep and subtle knowl-
edge. The world-old phenomenon of
the childishness, laziness and crimi-
nality of the ignorant and oppressed
becomes in her blindness purely a
racial, a “Negro” trait. If the gift
to the University of Virginia will do
something to shake the appalling con-
fidence of such wild judgments the
money will be well spent.
Of course, the scientific result will
be small. For many years these
young students will record not the
observed facts, but their preconceived
prejudices. This is inevitable with
persons who start despising and not
revering human souls simply because
of their humanity. Gradually, how-
ever, truth will triumph. Gradually
EDITORIAL
153
it will not be possible to assert un-
challenged in the University of Geor-
gia that “niggers are lazy.” It will
be explained by some perverse per-
son that this laziness has somehow
accumulated a thousand millions in
fifty years—although, of course, those
who did this are “exceptions.” In
time this center of learning will cease
to talk of “the” Negro and begin to
talk of men—some rich, some poor;
some good, some bad; some undevel-
oped “children” and some children
of the Kingdom of God.
THE GALL OF BITTERNESS.
MANY people object to the
policy of The Crisis because,
as they usually put it, The
Crisis is “bitter.” Some add that
our news is depressing or that we
are determined to look on the dark
side, and so forth.
It may be acknowledged at the out-
set that The Crisis does not try to
be funny. Not that we object to
fun: our office is a cheerful place,
with bits of sunshine and eager
young lives and high joyful purpose.
But our stock in trade is not jokes.
We are in earnest. This is a news-
paper. It tries to tell the Truth. It
will not consciously exaggerate in any
way, but its whole reason for being
is the revelation of the facts of racial
antagonism now in the world, and
these facts are not humorous.
True it is that this country has had
its appetite for facts on the Negro
problem spoiled by sweets. In earlier
days the Negro minstrel who “jumped
Jim Crow” was the typical black man
served up to the national taste. It
was the balmy day when slaves were
“happy” and “preferred” slavery to
all other possible states. Then came
the sobering of abolition days and war,
when for one horrified moment the
world gazed on the hell of slavery
and knew it* for what it was.
In the last fifteen years there has
come another campaign of Joy and
Laughter to degrade black folk. We
have been told that all was well or
if aught was wrong the wrong was
with the colored man. We have had
audiences entertained with “nigger”
stories, tales of pianos in cabins, and
of the general shiftlessness of the
freedman, and concerted effort to
make it appear that the wrongs of
color prejudice are but incidental and
trivial, while the shortcomings of
black men are stupendous, if not
fatal.
This is the lie which The Crisis
is here to refute. It is a lie, a mis-
erable and shameful lie* which some
black men have helped the white
South to spread and been well paid
for their pains.
It is not easy to impress the real
truth after this debauch, of defama-
tion, but we must try. In so trying
we realize that the mere statement
of the facts does not always carry
its message. Often the lighter touch,
the insinuation and the passing ref-
erence are much more effective. We
know this, and yet so often the grim
awfulness of the bare truth is so
insistent we feel it our duty to state
it. Take those stark and awful
corpses, men murdered by lynch law,
in last month's issue: it was a grue-
some thing to publish, and yet—could
the tale have been told otherwise?
Can the nation otherwise awaken to
the enormity of this beastly crime of
crimes, this rape of law and decency?
Could a neat joke or a light allusion
make this nation realize what 2.500
murders such as these look like?
We trust that the Gall of Bitter-
ness will not spoil the pages of The
Crisis or make its readers to shudder
at ill-timed frankness. But God for-
bid that mere considerations of pleas-
antry and sweetness should ever
make us withhold insistence, in sea-
son and out, upon that which a
Southern white correspondent of ours
calls “the barbarous treatment ac-
corded an unfortunate people by the
strong and arrogant Caucasian. When
Truth shall have come into her own,
through the m'edium of education,
the color line will be swept . into
oblivion of a dark and disgraceful
past. Men will shudder at the deeds
of their fathers, even as we shudder
at the horrors of the Inquisition.”
THE CRISIS
134
THE SOCIAL LIFE OF COLORED AMERICA:

1
FEBRUARY, 1912

m
155
I—THE MIDWINTER ASSEMBLY
Baltimore, Md.
156
THE CRISIS
THE DURBAR.
THE greatest concession wrung
from an arrogant modern nation
by a dark-skinned people has
just been gained by the Indians from
the English. The Durbar was not
simply a ceremonial—it was a con-
cession. For a long time England has
been trying to conciliate India by
social deference to her princes. Few
of the great drawing rooms of London
have not been graced in recent years
by these Eastern potentates, and every
public honor has been shown them.
All this is an old method with rulers.
Even with the American Negro the
experiment is continually tried locally
and nationally of extravagantly hon-
oring leaders who can be depended
on to do the tyrant’s will unques-
tioningly.
The rank and file, however, soon
learn to discriminate between such
empty honors and the real good of
the people. Ground down by igno-
rance and poverty, India demands
education and political autonomy.
Oppressed by color prejudice they de-*
mand the treatment of men.
The Durbar brought concessions in
all these lines. Its political signifi-
cant lay in the actual crowning of
an English monarch in India. No
longer is George V. a foreign monarch
ruling this land beyond the sea—
he is an emperor crowned on Indian
soil; moreover, his capital will be
hereafter the ancient Indian capital
of Delhi, and not the more English
Calcutta, where a fierce native agita-
tion has opened the eyes of England
to the determination of young India
to be free.
The Durbar marked the establish-
ment of the first great fund for popu-
lar education in India, and finally it
brought one curious concession, a con-
cession which England must have been
almost ashamed to announce: here-
after the Victoria Cross for bravery
on the field of battle will be given to
brown men as* well as white! Thus
ends a discrimination almost as dis-
. graceful as the discrimination against
colored candidates for Rhodes scholar-
ships in the Southern United States.
How have these concessions been
secured? By agitation—persistent and
long-continued agitation, by unrest and
protest which is not yet satisfied, and
will not be until India is a free
autonomous nation.
CHINA.
TO most folk the wonder of the
Chinese revolution is not in the
revolution but in the fact that
Chinamen show themselves so human.
There' was a time when everything
bizarre, curious and topsyturvy was
quite as a matter of course attrib-
uted to China. When it came to
rational modern thought we calmly
omitted China. Histories of the world
omitted China; if a Chinaman in-
vented compass or movable type or
gunpowder we promptly “forgot it”
and named only their European in-
ventors. In short, we regarded China
as a sort of different and quite incon-
sequential planet.
Suddenly now China looms as a
modern nation seeking in the blood-
lust of revolution the freedom to think
and be. Shall we welcome Chinese
rebirth with salvos of applause?
Why—er—yes; yes, of course; but
say, look here: what kind of a world
is this going to be, full of civilized
Japs, Chinks, dagoes and darkies?
Isn’t it high time for Desperate Des-
mond Hobson to wind his golden
trumpet and hail us to war for the
salvation of “white” civilization?
Soberly, is not the world face to
face with an enlarged, broadened, end-
less “race” and “color” problem, and
what are those folk to do who cannot
conceive a world where black, brown
and white are free and equal?
It also appears to me that when
prejudices persist obstinately it is the
fault of nobody so 'much as those
who make a point of proclaiming
them insuperable as an excuse for
never joining in an attempt to remove
them. Any prejudice zvhatever will
be insurmountable if those who do
not share in it themselves truckle to
it and flatter it and accept it as a
laztr of nature.
—JOHN STUART MILL.
FIRST ANNUAL MEETING OF THE
CORPORATION.
The first annual meeting of the cor-
poration of the National Association for
the Advancement of Colored People took
place in the rooms of the association
in the New York Evening Post Building,
New York, on January 4. There were
about seventy-five members present. Re-
ports of the officers were read and a full
board of directors elected. Supper was
served at six and in the evening Richard
Brown, the young protege of the asso-
ciation, exhibited some of his remarkable
water colors.
Mr. Oswald Garrison Villard, chairman
of the executive committee, began with
a general report of the activities of the
association, which was in part as follows:
The third annual conference was held
in Boston March 30 and 31. The ses-
sions were interesting and attracted
many warm adherents to the associa-
tion. A Boston branch was formed.
The fourth annual conference will be
held in Chicago this spring. Miss Jane
Addams, Miss S. P. Breckinridge and
Dr. C. E. Bentley are among the prime
movers.
The legal aid work of the association
has received special attention. In the
cases of Williams and Graham in New
Jersey the defendants were acquitted of
false charges of murder. Boys accused
of crime have been helped to secure
lighter sentences in Arkansas and Dela-
ware, and several cases are pending.
Local civil-rights defense has been
undertaken by the New York Vigilance
Committee, our local branch, under Mr.
J.	E. Spingarn and Mr. Gilchrist Stewart.
A campaign against the lynching that
has specially marked the year 1911 has
been inaugurated. After each of these
terrible occurrences the association has,
through its officers, sent letters to the
governors of the States demanding the
punishment of the guilty. The governors
of Kentucky, Florida, Oklahoma, Penn-
sylvania and Georgia have been written
to, not only by the association but by
many individuals.
A meeting was held on November 15
to protest against lynching. At no time
has the association realized more clearly
the need of awakening public sentiment
against murderous lawlessness than when
making arrangements for this meeting.
One leading conservative after another
declined to speak. Then the association
turned to its own members and splendid
addresses were made, well reported by
the press.
At this meeting a collection was
taken to be the beginning of a fund to
investigate lynching. This investigation
has been inaugurated at Coatesville, Pa.
The Wendell Phillips centenary was
celebrated in Boston, where Judge Wen-
dell Phillips Stafford spoke, and in
Brooklyn, where Charles Edward Russell
and Dr. R. V. Ransom were the chief
speakers.
Thus far the association has en-
deavored to keep clearly before it two
things—constant propaganda and legal
work. Propaganda takes place through
the publication of The Crisis, the hold-
ing of public meetings, the furnishing of
speakers for various organizations, the
writing of letters of explanation and
protest. This work could and should be
almost indefinitely extended.
To sum up, the association has now
reached a point where it is a recognized
body with a growing reputation, and the
possibility of work of prodigious im-
portance. It must, however, receive the
earnest, serious support of its member-
ship. It must realize that in asking for
money, it must secure large sums as well
as small; in short, recognize that if it is
to live and work it must operate, not on
a basis of $7,000 a year, but of $20,000.
It must be housed in offices in which it
is possible to do correct and painstaking
work and it must have a larger staff of
salaried workers. It must have these
things or it will fail at the moment of
achievement. It has against it an im-
mense mass of public opinion, backed by
inexhaustible resources. To fight suc-
cessfully, its members, those who believe
in its work-, must furnish it with greater
power.
<J The Director of Publicity and Research
reported that The Crisis had a circula-
tion of 16.000 and employed 250 agents.
Since the beginning 150.000 copies have
been printed, and the publication is rap-
idly becoming self-supporting, although
started a year ago without a cent of
capital.
158
THE CRISIS
Through the lecture bureau the
director has in sixteen months addressed
ninety-nine audiences, aggregating about
35,000	persons. Of these audiences, fifty-
three were composed mainly of colored
persons, and forty-six audiences mainly
of white. Among those addressed have
been twenty-six churches, twenty-six
public meetings, fifteen schools and col-
leges, ten clubs, seven lecture courses,
six social settlements, three working-
men’s clubs, two reformatories and two
learned societies. Thirty-five of the ad-
dresses were given in New York and
vicinity, nineteen in the East, twenty-
four in the West, ten in the South and
eleven in England in connection with
the Races Congress.
Among the publications issued by the
director are one book, four pamphlets,
eight magazine articles and several news-
paper articles.
<3 The report of the treasurer for eight
months, May 1 to December 31, 1911,
was as follows:
Receipts (cents omitted):
The Crisis..................... $5,208
Memberships ..................... 1,206
Special contributions, etc....	3,357
$9,771
Expenditures (cents omitted):
The Crisis...................... $5,138
Salaries ........................ 2,587
Office expense, travel, investi-
gation, etc.................. ’837
$8,562
Proposed budget for 1912 (omitting The
Crisis) :
Salaries ....................... $5,000
Office expense .................. 2,000
Legal bureau.. ..'............... 5,000
Travel, investigation and other
expenses ...................... 2,000
$14,000
q Mr. William M. Wherry, Jr., reported
on the organization of the legal bureau.
There are in hand now five cases: A
case of unjustifiable shooting by a New
York policeman, a case of alleged crim-
inal libel, the Coatesville investigation,
a case of discrimination in wages and
the dynamiting outrages in Kansas. Mr.
Wherry recommended that the legal
bureau, first, investigate all cases by
sending a special representative; sec-
ondly, form a legal committee of both
lawyers and laymen to whom all facts
shall be referred, who will determine
the advisability of taking up the cases
and lay down a general policy.
“Your society requires in regard to
these cases two distinct classes of service:
First, service which a lawyer ordinarily
performs for a client; namely, an in-
vestigation of the facts and a determina-
tion of the rights and of the best
course, from a legal point of view, to
enforce or protect these rights. But
more important, perhaps, than this serv-
ice is the service of determining what
cases should be handled by the society
at all in view of the larger question
mentioned above which is pressing for
solution.
“In my opinion, and it seemed to be
concurred in by those of us present at
the conference of the 20th, you will not
be able to get efficient information in
regard to the facts in a case without
paying something for it, and this deter-
mination of handling of the cases should
be separated from the determination of
what cases to handle. I therefore pro-
pose the following organization for your
legal work:
“A legal committee to be made up not
necessarily of lawyers but to have on
it a number of lawyers. To this com-
mittee all legal cases should be referred
with such report on the facts as can be
gotten. The function of the committee
is then to determine whether to handle
the cases and do what is necessary.
This committee should lay down a gen-
eral policy, namely, that cases which
do not specially involve the Negro
question but come to you simply because
a Negro is involved, should not be
handled by the association, but should
be referred to the legal-aid societies or
othet charitable institutions, and that
only cases should be referred to the
committee about which the executive
officer of the society has doubt.
“If a case is likely to involve a large
sum of money for its prosecution, un-
doubtedly a special appeal would produce
the funds.
“In addition to your legal committee
you should employ counsel whose func-
tion would be to ascertain.the facts and
law in the case referred fo him and make
a report on it, and if the committee
desires that it be prosecuted, to arrange
for its proper prosecution.. Counsel can
undoubtedly secure lawyers at reason-
able terms or free who will conduct
these cases.’’
q The New York Vigilance Committee,
the association’s local branch, of which
Messrs. J. E. Spingarn and Gilchrist
Stewart are the leaders, reported that
it had opened an office with a stenog-
rapher in attendance and a telephone so
that it might be always ready for service.
The branch is now handling a number
of cases, one of a man’s arrest follow-
ing his attempt to protect himself from
attack by a mob, three of violation of
the civil-rights law, and several dealing
with the beating of persons by police-
men or by thugs. The branch believes
that it is in a fair way to. stop the unnec-
essary roughness shown in the past by
THE N. A. A. C. P.
159
the New York police in dealing with
colored people. Prof. Spingarn, in the
course of his speech, said:
“The New York branch labors under
a peculiar difficulty. Unlike the National
Association, it has no violent outrages
confronting it; it can present no pictur-
esque wrongs to arouse public opinion
or to inflame the popular imagination.
New York has no disfranchisement; it
has no lynchings (at least, not yet);
it has no Jim Crow legislation. And yet,
despite these facts, colored men and
women in this city are confronted every
day of their lives with the most galling
conditions; they arc subjected to insult,
passive or active; they are refused
service and courteous treatment even
in the places where they are guaranteed
absolute equality with their white
brethren by legal statutes. They have
other and more specific wrongs to com-
plain of, including actual injustice in the
courts of justice; but I am not speaking
of these. I am thinking rather of the
studied humiliation imposed upon them
daily by three million people.
‘‘Personally I am inclined to think that
this is in a sense even more dangerous
than some of the more picturesque prob-
lems with which the National Associa-
tion is struggling. Lynching, after all,
is a mere sporadic brutality; and men
have given vent to brutal passions when-
ever their loves and hates have been
aroused. But this is not sporadic; it
is due to no unreasoned impulse. It is
continuous; it is reasoned; it is studied.
Caste is a more difficult thing to combat
than an occasional and meaningless out-
rage; and unless we ameliorate condi-
tions here, we shall be confronted with
a system of actual caste. If all the
forces opposed to caste, to privilege, to
inequality of justice and opportunity, do
not join together to combat these con-
ditions and to educate public opinion,
it will not be long before the conditions
in New York will be the exact counter-
part of those in every city of the South.
"It is to this work that the New York
branch has committed itself. It is con-
stantly attacking specific problems of
discrimination or outrage as these come
to it from time-to time upon the com-
plaints of the individual victims. But
it is desirous of doing more than this.
It hopes to be able ere long to make an
organized attack on the whole system
of discrimination in places of public
accommodation in order that the laws
guaranteeing equal rights shall not for-
ever remain the mere symbols of our
hypocrisy—visible proofs of the impo-
tence of our great democracy to cope
with caste.”
<3 Mr. Joseph P. Loud reported for the
Boston branch. Immediately after the
third annual conference of the associa-
tion, held in Boston in March, a local
committee was'formed as follows: Chair-
man, Mr. J. P. Loud; treasurer, Mr.
George C. Bradford; secretary, Mr.
Butler R. Wilson; comrrj.ittee on mem-
bership, Mrs. J. P. Loud and Mr. Francis
J. Garrison.
During the summer the branch suc-
cessfully opposed several cases of dis-
crimination against colored people. The
centenary of the birth of Wendell Phil-
lips was celebrated with a meeting chat
attracted much attention from the press.
The final organization of the branch will
be perfected at a meeting set for Feb-
ruary's. In the nine months since the
conference $1,368.95 has been raised by
collections, dues and membership fees.
QMrs. M. D. Maclean reported at some
length on her visit to Coatesville, which
will be fully described in a future issue
of The Crisis. She was sent by the
association to discover the facts in
regard to certain sensational stories in
the newspaper which told of attacks on
white women by colored men. There
had been three such stories and- she
found two of them to be absolutely
without foundation. The third had its
basis in the fact that a colored man
had, apparently, seized or threatened to
seize a schoolgirl who was wearing a
watch on the outside of her coat. All
three of the press stories have spoken
of attacks which had nearly provoked
lynchings.
Mrs. Maclean also reported that the
trials for the lynching of "Zach” Walker
last August were not over as most
people understood. Three men are still
in jail charged with complicity in this
crime and three are out on bail. There
is more hope of conviction now than
there was at the former trials.
There is a small but earnest party in
Coatesville which deeply feels the dis-
grace that the lynching of Walker
brought on the town, and our representa-
tive received cordial help from them in
her investigations. The majority of the
townspeople, however, seem to feel that
talk of the lynching even with the end
of punishing the murderers "hurts busi-
ness” and should be dropped.
Mrs. Maclean reported that she did
not think the State had done its duty
in regard to seeking and punishing the
guilty persons. Much had been left
undone, many lines of investigation had
not been followed out, and little money
had been spent.
CJ A board of thirty directors was elected
at this meeting; their names appear on
the third page of the cover of The
Crisis. After the meeting of the cor-
poration the directors, according to law,
met and elected the officers of the asso-
ciation for the ensuing year.
160
THE CRISIS
COLORED RESIDENCES—EAST SIDE OF MONTGALL AVENUE
DYNAMITE IN KANSAS CITY
[SOME CORRESPONDENCE]
In November this association received
a letter from a well-known colored resi-
dent of Kansas City, Mo., which said:
“We desire to place before the legal
department of the N. A. A. C. P. the
case of a group of Negroes of Kansas
City, Mo., who have suffered repeated
attempts to destroy their property by
an organization of white men who have
demanded that they leave the neighbor-
hood. There are nine Negro families
in one block and twelve in the next who
have purchased or are in progress of
buying their homes, ranging in price
from $1,300 to $4,000. In the block in
which I live five explosions of dynamite
have occurred in the past year, causing
considerable damage to our homes and
much mental uneasiness on the part of
our families. The last of these, which
happened Saturday, November 11, was
by far the most destructive of them all,
completely wrecking the home of Mr.
Hezekiah Walden. At that time Mr.
Walden was working in Salt Lake City
and his wife with two small children
were alone in the house.
“We have again and again appealed
to the mayor and the chief of police to
give us protection from these crimes,
but the detectives have been of no help
either in running the perpetrators to
earth or in checking further threats and
outrages. We feel that we have a clear
case against the city, inasmuch as we
have all faithfully discharged our duties
as citizens, and we are about to retain
eminent legal counsel to defend our
cause. In addition to this we beg that
we may have the assistance of some
member of the legal department of the
N. A. A. C. P., who will join us in vigor-
ously prosecuting this case.
“We fear (as threats have already been
issued) that our entire settlement will
be dynamited unless active steps are
taken to force the city to protect our
lives and property. Aside from this, if
Negroes are to be driven from one sec-
tion of a city to another simply because
a certain element (many of whom have
moved into the neighborhood after the
Negroes) demand it, we feel that no
place will be left to them except the
worst districts, even though they try to
be peaceable, honest and industrious
members of the community.
“We shall be glad to furnish you any
particulars regarding the situation or its
-history, and, besides, such photographs
of the houses and surroundings as you
may consider beneficial to the case. We
shall appreciate, also, an early reply.
“Very truly yours,"
The association immediately took up
this case and obtained further detailed
information from a resident.
“You will recall our neighborhood
when you drove out one day when here,
—
DYNAMITE IN KANSAS CITY
161
COLORED RESIDENCES—WEST SIDE OF MO NT GALL AVENUE
when my sister was with me. There are
nine homes owned by colored people at
this end of the block. The enclosed
photos show you the two opposite sides
of the street, Montgall, near 25th. The
colored people have lived in these houses
for periods ranging from eight years to
two years. When the first colored man
purchased in the block there were only
three white families in the near neigh-
borhood at the other end of the block.
New houses were put up near and sold
to whites, except the one adjacent to the
colored family, which, after standing
vacant for a while, was sold to a col-
ored family, and then the other whites
gradually sold out and moved away till
there were nine colored in this block
and about fifteen in the block to the
north of this one. They lived in these
peacefully till nearly three years ago,
when the agitation began that some
Republican boss had ‘Africanized’. the
tenth ward. Meetings were held in a
hall, denouncing agents and others who
had sold to the colored people, and it
was said that they must go by fair
means or foul—that they had depreciated
property, etc., etc. Feeliug ran high,
and when a place on a neighboring
street where no colored people had been,
was sold to a Negro, the throwing of
dynamite began. After three attacks on
this house, the colored man moved out,
and in a few weeks after that they
began trying the same methods in our
neighborhood on Montgall.
“Up to the last attack the plain injury
done was the breaking of windows, but
on the night of November 9 last a
discharge was set off in the Walden
house, wrecking it almost completely,
so that it is unsafe to live in and could
be repaired only at very great expense;
the house cost originally about $3,400.
His wife and children were alone in the
house, he being in Utah, but fortunately
were uninjured and made their home
with a neighbor until they could get
quarters in. another part of the city.
“The first press notices said it was
probably a gas explosion, but the insur-
ance company, of course, showed that
this was untrue and refused to pay insur-
ance, and the house stands a wreck.
“The photos will show you the nine
houses in question, five on the west
side and four on the east. They would
average about $3,000 in value, probably
aggregating $30,000: two of the cottages
have five rooms, others six and seven
rooms; they are brick -and frame and
modern in every respect.
“No offers have been made to buy the
places; they have been told indirectly
that they must move out and leave their
homes with agents and they will be sold.
“To us that is not a businesslike
proposition and we have not moved.
Only one house has been vacant about a
year, the one owned by Dr. Unthank,
and later bought by a colored teacher,
who has not lived in it.
“Two families have recently received
threatening letters telling them to move
out within thirty days, over the signa-
ture of ‘Dynamite.’ I understand that
the letters were turned over to the
postal inspector.
“The newspapers are almost silent,
have very brief notices, a few remarks
about the Negroes being in white neigh-
borhoods, where their presence is objec-
tionable, etc.
162
THE CRISIS
“The officers claim not to be able to
get any information about the matter.
1 wish we were able to hire W. J. Burns.
I think he could get them.
“The meetings that started the trouble
are not held publicly now, but, it is sup-
posed, in some private house, and that
the throwers of the bombs are hired for
the purpose.
“Respectfully,”
The governor of the State was ap-
proached and responded as follows:
“Replying to your letter of December
15, I enclose to you herewith a letter
from Hon. Solon T. Gilmore, police
commissioner of Kansas City, to whom
your letter was referred, together with
the files of this office concerning the
matter about which you write me.”
The police files gave these facts:
“The first explosion happened on April
S, 1910, when the house located at
2451 Chestnut Street and occupied by
A. G. Howard, colored, was dynamited
and the house slightly damaged. On
December 27, 1910, there was an explo-
sion between the houses occupied by
W. E. Griffin, colored, 2442 Montgall
Avenue, and Miss Annie Jones, colored,
of 2444 Montgall. Both of the houses
were badly damaged and the house occu-
pied by I. N. Day, 2440 Montgall, and
Gearald Taylor, 2436 Montgall, were
also slightly damaged at this time. On
March 31, 1911, the house occupied by
Susie Lewis, colored, at 3200 East How-
ard Avenue and owned by Mrs. Stoelz-
ing, of 2424 Park Avenue, was dynamited,
the explosion wrecking the rear of the
house and slightly damaged several
houses nearby. On May 22, 1911, the
house of W. E. Griffin, colored, 2442
Montgall Avenue, was dynamited for
the second time and the house badly
damaged and several windows broken in
the neighborhood. On July 16, 1911, the
home of Mrs. H. M. Reid, colored, 2461
Montgall Avenue, was dynamited and
the house partly wrecked. On Novem-
ber 11, 1911, the house located at 2442
Montgall Avenue was either dynamited
or the explosion was caused by leaking
gas.
“No arrests have been made of any
of the perpetrators of these dynamiting
outrages, and the supposition is that
these houses were being dynamited by
the white people in that neighborhood
who desired to rid the neighborhood of
these colored families. This was the
theory on which the police department
was working when they received in-
formation on November 26, 1911, from
a colored man by the name of Louis
Jackson, who stated that the houses
were being dynamited by one Floyd
Bullock, a colored man, who stated that
he was dynamiting the houses for the
reason that he desired to reduce the
value of property in that neighborhood.
Bullock has since been arrested on a
charge of carrying concealed weapons
and is at the present time under for
three years in the penitentiary.”
A prominent white man writes this
letter:
“Personally, I am inclined to suspect
that on account of race prejudice here
detectives have not shown the energy
which they should have shown. We
have no reason of doubting, however,
that th'c police board has been sincere
in its desire to arrest the offenders.
The situation is a very difficult one.
“There is a very strong suspicion that
the explosions have been carried on by
an organization of white property own-
ers. Early this week a Negro was sent to
the penitentiary on the charge that he
was guilty of the dynamiting at the so-
licitation of other Negroes who desired to
depreciate the value of property in the
neighborhood. While we do not pretend
to be detectives and have no means of
disproving the charge, the story hardly
seems probable.
“Yours truly,”
A white lady writes:
“The whole web of black and white
is so badly tangled here that even help
has to get to these people quietly or it
brings them trouble.
“Please don’t think I was not inter-
ested or that we did not want to give
all the help possible. It is only very
difficult to find the most helpful way
of doing it.”
The Kansas City Star had the follow-
ing editorial December 29, 1911:
“The credulity of Judge Latshaw of
the criminal court is quite remarkable.
Judge Latshaw believes that a Negro
dynamited the homes of Negroes at the
instigation of Negroes! Such guileless
gullibility is enviable.
“But that is neither here nor there.
“More to the point is it that because
of this belief Judge Latshaw sentenced
the Negro to three years in the peni-
tentiary, although the only charge
against him was that of carrying con-
cealed weapons. That is to say, the
former extreme penalty of ‘gun toting’
was two years in prison; and many
guilty ones have received only jail
sentences or have escaped with a repri-
mand; but this man was sentenced to
three years in prison because the judge
suspected him of a different crime.
“That was doubtless legal, for other-
wise the judge would not have done it.
But ought it to be legal? Ought a man
who pleads guilty to one offense be
given at least a year in the penitentiary
for a crime he is not even legally
accused of?”
Disfranchising Voters in Maryl and
[The following account of the working of the attempts, in Maryland, to dis-
franchise white and colored voters alike is taken from a pamphlet by Vernon S.
Bradley, endorsed and published by the Honest Ballot League of that State. Our
article is a greatly coadensed version of Mr. Bradley’s story, but it contains the
leading facts.]
The legislature of Maryland met in
extraordinary session in March of 1901
to pass a new election law to restrict
the Maryland suffrage. In a continued
development of this plan each succeed-
ing legislature added numerous amend-
ments, the most sweeping of which was
the Wilson law of 1904. The Wilson
law is in operation in eleven counties
of Maryland, and the public outside
these counties has little knowledge of
what it is.
It is necessary to remember that the
legislature of 1896 gave to Maryland
the Australian ballot law, providing,
among other things, for bipartisan elec-
tion officials; permitting the use of an
emblem by each political party and
requiring a voter to make but one X
mark to have his ballot counted for the
entire ticket of his choice.
The legislature of 1901 abolished the
party emblem. The picture of “Abe Lin-
coln” or of Andrew Jackson, or of the
hickory tree was permitted no longer as
an emblem or guide for the voter. The
voter was required to make a separate
X mark for every candidate for whom he
voted. Supervisors of election were
directed to arrange alphabetically on the
official ballots the names of the vari-
ous candidates. The supervisors of elec-
tion, or a majority of them, were author-
ized to accept nominations from two par-
ties using the same party designation, by
prefixing to one some such qualifying
term as “Independent.” This was the
stepping stone to the first fake tickets
in Maryland in the November election
of 1901. Ballots could be rejected for
trifling cause.
The acts of 1902 gave the three super-
visors of election, or a majority of each
board (two being Democrats), the
“power to make all rules necessary and
regulations not inconsistent with this
article.” A majority vote of the super-
visors was made sufficient to determine
all questions. The discretionary powers
of the two Democratic supervisors were
enlarged. The next step was to give to
them almost unlimited discretionary
powers in the Wilson law of 1904.
The Wilson law abolished the party
designation. The alphabetical arrange-
ment of names of candidates for county
and State offices was abolished. It gave
to the two Democratic members of each
board of election supervisors power to
arrange names of candidates and to de-
termine practically all questions relat-
ing to the ballot; it gave to them dis-
cretionary powers almost absolute. The
law was applied to Somerset, Worcester,
Kent, Talbot, St. Mary's, Charles, Cal-
vert, Prince George’s and Anne Arundel
counties.
The Democratic politicians responsi-
ble for the Wilson law need the Negro
for their annual and most effective cam-
paign issue. But Maryland is not in
danger of Negro domination. Only 17
per cent, of the registered vote of
the State is Negro, and surely there
is small compliment to the 83 per cent,
white voters to have it fear domination
by the 17 per cent, colored vote. While
the white registered vote has been in-
creasing constantly, the colored reg-
istered vote has remained practically
the same for twenty-five years. Twenty
per cent, of the total registered vote of
Maryland was colored in 1888:	17 per
cent, of the total registered vote was
colored in 1910. The cry of Negro
domination is a fanciful issue, raised for
political purposes only.
Various tricks to disfranchise votes
were resorted to. As an example in
Somerset County in 1903 a “fake ticket”
ballot was used, with the name of a
“Repudiation” party. Here is a fac-
simile :
FOR REGISTER OF WILLS
Vote for One
Thomas	Dixon	Democratic J
William	S. Lankford	Repudiation |
William	F. Lankford	Republican |
Woodland Allison Long		Prohibition |
1 1		
It was hoped the Republican looking
for William F. Lankford would vote for
William S. Lankford or both; or that
in looking for Republican would make
his X mark after Repudiation or both.
Next appears the Somerset official
ballot of 1907. As usual, it was a trick
ballot, and had also a fake ticket. It
was an illustrated ballot that furnished
an emblem to the voter for the Demo-
cratic candidates and . confusion to the
voters for candidates of other parties.
A Democratic voter had only to mark
above the black lines, and illiterates
among the Democratic voters were told
to mark above' these lines. The names
164
THE CRISIS
of the candidates on the Republican
ticket were mixed up in confusion, and
the Republican voters had to search all
over the ballot for the names of the
candidates for whom they desired to
vote. The law had been changed and
party emblems had been prohibited, as
well as any other assistance to any
voter; yet in defiance of this law the
supervisors of election deliberately
arranged a ballot with an emblem or
heavy black guide line above the name
of every Democratic candidate to assist
the Democratic voter, but denied that
guide line or any similar assistance to
the Republican voter.
This Somerset ballot had not only
guide lines to assist the Democratic
voter, but it had also a fake ticket with
fake names of candidates looking like
the names of Republican candidate’s, de-
Democratic ticket. No sample ballots
are published in the Wilson counties.
The Democratic supervisors furnish in
advance instructions to the voters of
their own party and have ballots dis-
tributed for instruction purposes; but
the Republican supervisor and the
Republican voters are kept in ignorance
of the form of the ballot until the time
is too short for instruction of the voters
of their party.
The registered vote of Maryland in
1909 was about 11,000 more than in
1S99, while the counted vote was about
50.000 less than in 1899. While 89 per
cent, of the registered vote of Maryland
was counted in 1899, only 69 per cent,
of the registered vote was counted in
1909. The loss in the counted vote in
ten years represents the voters disfran-
chised by the Wilson ballot and by
Charles County Off.clal Ballot of |<H>9
ro» mol»i o» oiuca rti
'on »o» r»o
W MITCMCU OtCCti
weusTui t. art
CCOICt O MON'Ol
jok* i wrnu*ju.a
lYDvtl l MVDD.
, wuulu
PART OP A BALLOT, POUR
signed to draw accidentally to these fake
names votes intended for the Republican
candidates. For instance, Abraham Lin-
coln. Dryden, a candidate on the Repub-
lican ticket, was paired off with Sidney
Columbus Dryden, a fake candidate.
(The same Sidney Columbus Dryden
was used on a fake ticket to de-
feat Abraham Lincoln Dryden on
the Somerset ballot of 1909). Isaac
Henry Hall was paired off with George
Emory Hall. Other similar names were
found for fake nominations for the
House of Delegates.
The Wilson law is a piece of class
legislation. It has been submitted to
popular vote in no county in Maryland.
It was devised by a class of Democratic
politicians that needed such means to
perfect an organization that would be
proof against the Republican and the
Independent voter. It has been applied
to Republican counties, and it has
accomplished the purpose intended; for
in no county in Maryland have the
Republicans elected a full county ticket
where the* Wilson law was in operation.
Counties that before the days of the
Wilson law were close, or safely Repub-
lican, now give regular majorities to the
AND ONE-HALF FEET LONG
similar election legislation. This dis-
franchised vote is of two kinds: First,
the stay-at-home vote; second, the
rejected vote thrown out by the election
officials in the poll room. Of course,
the total registered vote never is polled
and counted. There is always a certain
number of registered voters that do not
vote.
The stay-at-home disfranchised vote is
greater among the white voters than
among the colored. If 68 per cent,
of the white registered vote of Somerset
county came out and voted, 32 per cent,
stayed at home; but only 22 per cent,
of the Negro voter stayed at home in
this county, for 78 per cent, of the
Negro registered vote came out and
voted. The percentage is about the
same in Dorchester county.
So much for the stay-at-home vote.
The greater part of the vote disfran-
chised by the Wilson ballot is repre-
sented in the rejected or throw-out vote.
In the November election in 1909 there
were 4,154 votes counted in Dorchester
county for all the candidates on the
State ticket, the highest vote. Three
thousand, three hundred and five were
counted in the Democratic primary two
WOMEN'S CLUBS
165
months before. Only 882 more votes election than in the Democratic primary,
(Republican, Democratic and Prohibi- though the Republican vote in the gen-
tionist) were counted in the general eral election ran as high as 2,007.
[As we are about to go to press news comes that the Wilson ballot law has
been repealed and the Bosley bill substituted. The Republican success at the
polls last autumn made some change necessary, but the Bosley bill is declared by
the Independents to be no better or even more confusing than the old law. For
example, no party emblems are permitted and the voter must remember the
political creeds of thirty-six candidates.]
The “N” Street Day Nursery.
A modest little six-room frame build-
ing at 417 N. Street, N. W., Washington,
D.	C., shelters the Day Nursery for Col-
ored Children. So unpretentiously has
the work been carried on that the
nursery has no definite name, but takes
the name of the street upon which it
happens to be located.
In October, 1904, this movement was
started by a group of white women, of
which Mrs. Joseph A. Gilfillan was the
leading spirit, acting as secretary for
the board and general manager for the
work'.
A part of the first annual report of
the secretary reads as follows: “There
are three principal ways in which the
little colored children of this city are
disposed of when their mothers go out
for a day’s work, as they must do to get
bread for the children. One is to lock
them in the house, babies and all, to
care for each other. Another is to turn
them over to the care of a neighbor,
who, with her own family to look after,
instead of going out to work, takes in
washing. A third, to keep an older
child home from school to give such
care as she can. Is it any wonder that
the district nurses have some pitiful
tales to tell of accidents that have hap-
pened? One of a child that was badly
burned; another of a baby that was
found a living skeleton. It had been
left in the charge of a child of four
years, who gave it its bottle faithfully,
but whether the milk was hot or cold,
sweet or sour, was all the same. Both
of these children, by having proper care,
recovered.
“The health report shows that out of
every 1,000 colored babies born in Wash-
ington 457 die within their first year;
while in the same number of white
babies only 183 die. Nor is this all.
No one who has lived long in Washing-
ton can have failed to notice the
large number of deformities among the
colored people, due to neglect in
infancy. * ■ *	*
“The nursery is open every day, Sun-
days and legal holidays excepted, from
7 a. m. to 7 p. m.; the mothers bringing
the babies in the morning and coming
for them at night. They are required
to pay five cents a day for the care of
each child and also to bring all neces-
sary food, which the caretaker prepares
for each child, the nursery furnishing
only the milk; so that, although the
nursery is a charity in the sense that
it is not and never can be self-support-
ing, it does not have the effect of a
charity on those who get the benefit of
it. A supply of clothing is kept on
hand and after the babies are bathed
they are allowed to wear it through
the day, but their own clothes are put
on before they go home. The effect
of such care was shown in the case of
one baby whose mother was quite dis-
turbed the first night she took the baby
home because it slept all night. The
next morning she demanded, ‘What
have you been giving my baby? It
never slept all night before.’ The care-
taker told her all she had given it was
a bath and a good rubbing.”
The foregoing shows the discerning
sympathy and the desire for loving
service which prompted the opening of
the nursery; the same spirit has car-
ried on the work through many vicis-
situdes.
After the nursery had been in operation
for some months, the management very
justly felt that colored women should
take part in its development, and in
1905 Mrs. Gilfillan requested the assist-
ance of the Alpha Charity Club of
Anacostia, D. C., through its founder
166
THE CRISIS
and president, Mrs.
Leila Amos Pendle-
ton. The club re-
sponded at once,
and, together with
the Social Purity
Club of Washington,
has lent assistance,
giving money, fuel,
food, garments, etc.
These women have
also tried to explain
to the mothers of the
neighborhood
the meaning and pur-
pose of the nursery.
In June, 1910, Mrs.
Pendleton, president,
and Mrs. W. Bruce
Evans, vice-presi-
dent, of the Social
Purity Club, visited
the five school build-
ings in the vicinity
of the nursery in the
effort to interest the
children and teach-
ers in the work. The
children were invited to attend a “party
and a large number responded. The
girls were invited to attend a vacation
school (a lack of space and of volunteer
teachers prevented a
like invitation to the
boys), and on Tues-
day, July 5, the vaca-
tion school was
opened.
A number of out-
grown garments had
been solicited and
the girls were taught
to make over large
articles into smaller
ones, to darn,
patch and mend;
they were also given
simple lessons in
cooking cereals, ap-
ples, potatoes, etc.
When the public
schools opened in
the fall, the girls ex-
pressed a desire to
attend the sewing
class on Saturdays,
and so the members
of the Social Purity
Club have conducted
the vacation school
and the Saturday class alternately.-
The result has been a marked improve-
ment in the manners and the entire tone
of the girls of the neighborhood.
DAY NURSERY CHILDREN
HISTORIC DAYS IN FEBRUARY
1.	Charles Lenox Remond, worker in
the cause of abolition, born, 1810.
2.	Georgia ratified the Fifteenth
Amendment, 1870.
3.	Pennsylvania Abolition Society
petitioned Congress to abolish slavery,
1790.
4.	James G. Birney, Free Soil candi-
date for President, born, 1792.
5.	Resolution presented in Congress
for annihilation of slave trade, 1820.
6.	Thaddeus Stevens reported Recon-
struction Bill in Congress, 1867.
8.	Confederate States forbid importa-
tion of slaves, 1861.
9.	Recruiting 54th Massachusetts
Regiment began, 1863>
10.	Paul Laurence Dunbar died, 1906.
11.	Bishop J. M. Walden, friend of
Negro education, born, 1831.
12.	Abraham Lincoln born, 1809.
First Fugitive Slave Act, 1793.
13.	Absalom Jones, first Negro Prot-
estant Episcopal minister in the United
States, died, 1818.
14.	Frederick Douglass’ birthday,
1817. Mr. Douglass never knew the
day and year of his birth. By a system
of approximation, explained in his “Life
and Times,” he'concluded that he must
have been born about the year 1817.
He selected St. Valentine’s Day as his
birthday, because, as he used facetiously
to remark, he was his race’s “Valentine.”
15.	Blanche K. Bruce, a Negro sena-
tor from Mississippi, presided over the
United States Senate, 1879.
16.	Henry Wilson, abolitionist, sena-
tor and Vice-President of the United
States, born, 1812.
17.	Nebraska ratified the Fifteenth
Amendment, 1870.
18.	Texas ratified the Fifteenth
Amendment, 1870.
20. Frederick Douglass died, 1895.
23.	Charles Sumner opposed, in the
Senate of the United States, a bust to
Chief Justice Taney, author of the Dred
Scott decision, 1865.
24.	Bishop Daniel A. Payne born,
1811.
25.	Hiram R. Revels, first Negro
United States senator, took the oath of
office as senator, 1870.
26.	General Grant forbade search for
slaves in his lines, 1862.
27.	Dominican Republic formed, 1844.
L. M. Hershaw.
RENTING A HOUSE IN
PHILADELPHIA.
I never had the experience of renting
a house in my life until last June. I
had attempted to buy a house, but after
the bargain was about made, except
transferring funds, the owner, who
seemed at first anxious to sell, decided
not to sell to a colored person.
So I decided to rent until I could find
the kind of house I wanted to purchase.
The first house recommended to me for
rental belonged to the Stephen Girard
Estate. Over the telephone I was told
that I might have it, and that the agent
would go with my wife to show her
through it. However, when my wife ap-
peared, the agent was “too sorry to put
her to the trouble,” but he “could not
rent to colored people.” The house was
on Sansom Street, between 40th and
41st Streets. On one side of it most
of the occupants are colored. This was
therefore surprising.
I then called up several other agents.
All of them gave me houses, out of
repair or on poorly paved and poorly
kept streets, some positively filthy, be-
cause I told them I desired a house
“for a colored clergyman.”
Not being satisfied, the next day I
called up Wm. J. Benham, and this was
the conversation between us:
“This is Wm. J. Benham, Incorpo-
rated. What can we do for you?”
“I am Dr. R. R. Wright, of 105 S.
34th Street. I hear you have some nice
little houses on Ruby Street, and I want
to rent one.”
“All right, doctor, we have numbers
— ---- ---- and ---- on South Ruby.
The rent is $18 per month; six rooms
and bath, all conveniences.”
“Yes, but haven’t you some in the
next block, above Market—on North
Ruby?”
After a long pause: “Y-e-s, I think we
have.”
“All right, I want one of them; when
can I get it?”
“Now, doctor, to be perfectly frank
with you, I don’t think you would care
to have a house on North Ruby. You
know—er—you know, er—er—they are—
why, colored people live chiefly on
North Ruby.”
“What difference does that make, Mr.
Benham?”
“Well, I thought you would not like
to live among them.”
“I don’t if they are thieves, drunkards,
wife beaters and general disturbers of
the peace.”
“Oh, they aren’t so bad as that, doc-
tor, but you know they are colored.”
“Are they respectable, quiet and law
abiding? That’s what I want to know.”
“Oh, yes.”
“Well, I like colored people. I am
from .the South and I am used to them.
My father hires colored people, and I
employ a dozen or more in my business.
You see, I make most of my money out
of them. They are a fine loyal set when
you know them—I mean the respectable
ones, of course.”
“Yes,” came weakly over the ’phone.
“Now, Mr. Benham, I want a house on
North Ruby.”
“Doctor, it will cost you $20.”
“But I thought you said $18?”
“No, $18 for South Ruby, but $20 for
North Ruby.”
“Are they the same houses?”
“Yes.”
“Why $2 more?”
“Well, that is the charge.”
“Oh, you have them pay $2 for the
privilege of being colored, do you? I
see.”
“Yes, I guess you are right, doctor.”
“But you are not going to charge me
$20?”
After a long pause: “You see, we can
rent that for $20 to a colored man, and
so I guess we will have to charge
you $20.”
“Well, I will take a house on South
Ruby at $18. For, as much as I like
the colored people, I am not going to
throw any money away.”
“All right, doctor, we have No. ------
South Ruby; you can have that for $18.”
After a pause: “Now, you see, Mr.
Benham, if it turned out that I am
colored, could I still rent a house on
South Ruby for $1S?” Still longer
pause: “Yes, I am a colored man, Dr.
R. R. Wright.”
“Well, doctor, I don’t know; I’ll have
to see and I'll call you up.”
168
THE CRISIS
From that day to this I have never
been called up. 1, however, called on
Mr. Benham and found that he had “no
houses on South Ruby.”
May say that 1 did move on North
Ruby, pay $20 per month (not to Mr.
Benham, however), and find the street
quite respectable. There has been one
arrest during the six months I have been
here, also one case of serious drunken-
ness and one quarrel between families.
In none of these were Negroes involved.
Within a year the street has changed
from an all white to two-thirds colored,
and all the remaining whites have “for
sale” signs on their houses.
R. R. Wright, Jr.
The International Moulders' Journal
says: “Another argument used was that if
we took the Negro molder into our union
we would place him in a position to work
in any of our shops, and by this means
the Negro would soon have all the foun-
dries south of the Mason and Dixon line.
This, in my opinion, is one of the weak-
est arguments advanced. If these broth-
ers could come to Chattanooga, Tenn.,
and see some of the Chattanooga foun-
dries that are working Negro molders,
where there are no restrictions placed
on the number of handy men and appren-
tices worked, he would soon realize that
if something was not done soon to get
us in a position to stop this evil, the
Negro in a very short time would be in
a better position to do the very thing
that they claim they are afraid would
happen by allowing them to join our
union. The only way to stop this prac-
tice is by organizing the Negro molders
and insisting on the foundries living up
to the ratio of apprentices. If the Mold-
ers’ Union had taken up this work of
taking'the Negro into their union years
ago the Chattanooga foundries of to-day
would not be used as incubators to turn
out Negro molders, and instead of having
hundreds of Negro molders, there would
have been very few." The man virtually
says, take Negroes into the union so as
to keep them out of the trade.
<1 A colored man who has not visited the
South for several years recently took a trip
and writes as follows: “After crossing the
line I took in. everything. No colored man
could go into the coaches of the whites
under any consideration, and yet the white
men could come into our car and drink beer,
use bad language and smoke among our
women travelers. I saw the conductor
and flagman smoking in our car. The
company can provide smokers for the
whites to keep them from smoking in
the presence of their women passengers.
Why can’t it do the same for us? I
was born in the South and stayed there
until I was 24 years old, and I admit
that the condition of the colored race
is growing steadily worse on account of
the oppression of the whites.”
$65.00
A value unequaled. Sold on
$1.00 Profit Margin. Write
for prices and other styles.
Send for catalog.
C. R. Patterson & Sons
GREENFIELD, OHrO
Largest Negro carriage concern in the United States
LEGAL DIRECTORY
J. DOUGLAS WETMORE
Attorney and. Counbelor-at-Law
5 Beckman Street (Temple Court)
New York City
Tel. 6222 Cortlandt	Cable Address, Judowet
Real Estate and Probate Matters a Specialty
ROBERT B. BARCUS
Attorney and Counselor*at-Law
Notary Public
Office: Room 502, Eberly Block Columbus, O.
FREDERICK L. McGHEE
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Union Block, Fourth and Cedar Streets
Sl Paul, Minn.
General Practice	Notary Public
WILLIAM R. MORRIS
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
1020 Metropolitan Life Building
Minneapolis. Minn.
B.	S. SMITH
Attorney and CoVnbelor-at-Law.
Offices: Suite 610, Sykes Block
Minneapolis, Minn.
GEORGE W. MITCHELL
Attorney-at-Law
908 Walnut Street
Philadelphia, Pa.
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
169
\
ARE/YOU INTERESTED
I
BOOKS
1
THEj
NEGRO PROBLEM
ORA7 >>
PARTOF/IT
THE
MAGAZINE
STUDENTS OF THE NEGRO PROBLEM
The Souls of Black Folk, DuBois
History of the Negro ■ Washington
John Brown ■	■ DuBois
lip From Slavery -	* Washington
Poems of Paul Laurence
Dunbar
Poems of W. S. Braith-
waite
Race Adjustment * .Hiller
Negro In the New World, Johnston
Following the Color Line, Baker
Works of Charles W.
Chestnutt
Atlanta University Studies
Merriam
Negro and the Nation
Negro In the South ■
i Washington
1 DuBois
Aftermath of Slavery • Sinclair
Half a Han ■	- Ovington
Life of Harriet Beecher
Stowe • • » ■ Stowe
Hind of Primitive Han, Boaz
Race Prejudice - ■ Finot
Curse of Race Prejudice, Horton
Quest of the Silver Fleece,
a novel -	-	- DuBois
Through Afro-America, Archer
Southern South -	• Hart
Inter-Racial Problems, Official Record
of the Universal Races Congress
i
THE CRISIS
A RECORD OF THE DARKER RACES
And general readers will
find this list embraces the
most popular and compre-
hensive studies of the Negro
question. They are the
best books by the best
writers and thinkers. By
special arrangements with
the publishers of the books
we are in position to make
combination offers at re-
markably low prices. This
offer is good for a limited
time only and is made to
increase the subscription
list of
THE CRISIS
the magazine edited by
\V. EL B. DuBois with the co-operation of (Oswald Garrison
Villard, Charles Edward Russell. Kelly Miller and
others. The Crisis is the organ of the National As-
sociation For the Advancement of Colored People
and is a record of every important happening and
movement in the world which bears on the great
problems of inter racial relations and especially
those which affect the Negro American.
To the
Publishers
of the CRISIS,
20 Vesey Street-
New York City.
Gentlemen:
Please send,
without any cost to
me, your descriptive
circular offering these
sets of books on the
Negro Problem and a
year’s subscription to the
CRISIS.
Name___________________________
Address________________________
Gty___________________
State_________________
OUR OFFER:
We have made special combinations A-'
r	^ •
with these books in sets of five. ten. fif-
teen and twenty, together with a
year’s subscription to theCr/j7«r, ^
and will be glad to have the
names and addresses of all
who find themselves
interested in this
greatest of
problems.
Mention The Crisis.
170
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Q Through our Classified Advertising Service you have the opportunity
to tell your little wants to 40,000 SELECT readers.
Q If you want HELP, you can find, among The CRISIS readers,
graduates of Industrial Schools and thousands of young people who are
trained for efficient, dependable service.
Q If you want a POSITION, The Crisis can help you find high-
class places for teachers, managers, clerks, stenographers, hotel men, etc., etc.
Q You will find our readers very responsive to this department for
Business Opportunities, Investments, Correspondence Schools, Agents
Wanted, etc.
<5 Advertisers may have replies sent in care of The CRISIS and forwarded.
Classified advertising rates made known on application.
________REAL ESTATE______________
Valuable Texas Lauds
For Sale
Largo tracts of farm land in the best local-
ities of the State for sale at Tory flattering
price*. Small tract* for good land* suitable for
farming, truck, fruit* and any domestic product.
We have for sale a number of large farms al-
ready In cultivation, good house* and barns,
well*, and nice pasture lands, which can be
obtained at reasonable rates. Oitv property a
specialty. Business lots in the oe»t part of
the city, improved and unimproved. Large lots
suitable for factory property with switch
facilities.
No investment can be more valuable than an
investment in Texas real estate. Lands are be-
coming so valuable that they are doubling
themselves in value in less than a year’s time.
For any investment in Texas property, write
T. B. Madison Real Estate Company, 3415 Elm
8treet, Dallas, Texas.
To Coloiredl IPeopIle
I?OE BALE—We have houses from $1,000 to
*-	$30,000. Our city is the capital of Ohio
and a great manufacturing center—plenty of
work, a good place to locate for business. Can
sell you a house for $50. $100 to $500 down,
balance like rent. For investment and specu-
lating houses or business places, $1,000 to
$5,000 down, balance on long time payment.
Farm land prices from $1 000 to $10,000 up.
Any of these are in good locations. Write for
further information.
THI8 IS A COLORED ENTERPRISE.
EDWARD A. SHANKLTO
Real Estate
1218V4 Mt Vernon Avc.
C®me I® Oklahoma
TAFT, OKLAHOMA, is the fast-
est-growing colored town in the United
States. Already a flourishing, prosper-
ous community with bank, industrial col-
lege and State school for colored race,
cotton gin, brick yard, churches, numer-
ous stores and other enterprises, all con-
trolled by thriving colored citizens.
Surrounded by the most fertile farming
land in Oklahoma. Directly in the path
of the fortune-making oil developments
in Oklahoma. Splendid openings for
home seekers, business men, mechanics
and others. Invest your money in Taft
no tv. It will make you handsome
returns.
Beautifully located lots, $25 to $30
each. Five dollars cash, small monthly
payments "without interest or taxes.
Perfect titles positively guaranteed.
Write to-day for handsome illustrated
map, booklet and lithograph.
tlambuo, Ohio
REEVES REALTY CO.
ffynn-Amcs Bld0.„ Muskogee. Okla
'T'rrrt CltTRIfi
I
THE CRISIS
ADVERTISER
171
MUSIC
HELEN ELISE SMITH
CONCERT PIANIST
PoBt-Graduate of the Institute of Musical Art
Pupil of Sigismund Stojowski
Teacher of Plano, Theory, Ear-training, etc.
224 EAST 86TH STREET, NEW YORK CITY
MISS EDITH W. McKENNY
Concert Pianist
310 W. 119th Street	New York Citj
Piano lessons given privately or in classes
at reasonable rates.
Music furnished for private parties.
SCHOOLS
MAYERS’ INDUSTRIAL SCHOOL
BOARDING AND DAY SCHOOL
For the industrial, literary, moral and religious
training of the Negro youth.
Terms reasonable.
For particulars address
FLORA E. MAYERS, Principal
606 Payno Street	Knoxville, Tenn.
Our Normal Preparatory Course
includes a thorough review of Arithmetic, Gram-
mar, Geography, U. S. History, Physiology,
Reading, Spelling. Penmanship, Drawing, Civil
Government and Theory and Art of Teaching.
Just the thing to prepare you for a teachers’
examination. Address
AFEO-AMERICAN CORRESPONDENCE
SCHOOL
2808 St. Ann Street	New Orleans, La.
FURRIER
Seventeen Years’ Experience
WORK TURNED OUT PROMPTLY
MRS. G. B. NEEDLES
Late with Broadway houses
PRACTICAL FURRIER
All kindB of furs remodelled, repaired and re
lined. White furs cleaned, equal to new. Coats
guaranteed to fit. Prices reasonable.
24 WEST 1S5TH STREET	NEW YORK
PATENTS
L.	H. LATIMER
MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEER
and
SOLICITOR OF PATENTS
55 John Street	New York
Inventions Perfected, Models and Experi-
mental Machines Designed and Constructed.
Technical Translations.
Telephone 343 John	Room 604
Mention
TYPEWRITERS
Remingtons. Densmores. Jew-
etts. $11.50 each; Franklins.
Postals. Hammonds. $9 each.
Bargains In Underwoods.
Smiths and aU others. All
guaranteed. Supplies.
Standard Typewriter
Exchange
Z3B Park Row. New York
HELP WANTED
RELIABLE HELP at all times for the moat
discriminating employers.
Out-of-town correspondence invited.
References thoroughly investigated
Address;
MISS I. L. MOORMAN
463 Lenox Avenue	New York
’Phone: Harlem, 6370
Middlesex Employment Agency
Offers you the benefit of its experience, gained
by years of actual conduct of business and the
prestige that comes from a large clientele of
satisfied patrons.
Our rigid investigation of references keeps our
standard high. Mail orders solicited.
2229 Fifth Avenue, near 136th Street,
New York.
MEN AND WOMEN WANTED
to sell beautiful Art Pictures. Our agents
are coining money on these pictures.
Three sample pictures by mail, 35 cents.
Ten sample postcards by mail, 6 cents.
Address
JACOB GRIFFITH
252 W. 53d Street	New York
WANTED—A first-class photographer to take full
charge of studio in best city in America, with
privilege of buying half interest of entire
business. Owner going on road as demon-
strator. For particulars address No. 100, care
of THE CRISIS.
WANTED—A man of character and ability to
fill the position of Financial Agent. Must be
a good lecturer and a convincing talker. This
will be a paying and permanent position.
Investigate at once.
Address THE S., I. & E. CORPORATION,
Mound Bayou, Miss.
WANTED AT ONCE I
COLLECTORS OF NAMES AND ADDRESSES
WANTED AT ONCE—One person in every city
in the United States, who can write plainly, to
send us names and addresses of lawyers, doctors,
merchants, business men of all professions, suf-
ferers of diseases, pensioners, and so forth
Spare time work and profitable pay. For further-
particulars send two-cent stamp. Address
O. A. WRIGHT
Bedford City	Virginia
Thk Cxjsis.
172
THE CRISIS
ADVERTISER
Bom. 2220	Cen. 8322
Van Noy Printing Co.
100 Linen Finish Cards by Mall, 60c.
COMMERCIAL PRINTING
SOCIETY FEINTING
BOOK AND JOB PRINTING
2316 MARKET ST. ST. LOUIS, MO.
A RACE ENTERPRISE
Manufacturing Badges, Banners and
Supplies for all Fraternal and Church
Societies. Catalogue upon request.
CENTRAL REGALIA CO.
Jos. L. Jones, Pres.
N. E. Cor. 8th and Plum Streets
Cincinnati. Ohio
O. Augustus Wright
Attorney-in-Fact
P. O. Box 121	Bedford City, Va.
Practices before the Department of the
Interior, and the several bureaus thereof
at Washington, D. C. Prosecutes
claims for pension, increase of pen-
sion and bounty land.
Searches made of U. S. Patent Office
records; assignments of patents pre-
pared and filed. Trademarks and copy-
rights procured.
Correspondence solicited.
Approved: Bureau of Pensions, J. P»
9-26-11.
’Phone 4876-W Harlem
The Quaint Entertainer, Author and Banjo
Comedian
AL. BROWN
Presents His
DUO. TRIO AND QUARTETTE
For All Private Occasions
References:	The Public for 12 Years
Studio: 16-18 W. 136th St. New York City
Hour* • 10 A. M. to 7 P. M.
WHERE TO STOP
NEW YORK CITY
fSarahaU’a ijntrl l2lTZT'3i!^
COMFORT—Large, airy rooms, offering genuine home comforts plus tht
conveniences and privileges of a modern hotel.
SERVICE—In the hotel and dining room the “Marshall” service is an excep-
tional feature, which assures comfort and pleasure for our patrons. .
Restaurant open all night.	Cuisine to satisfy the most discriminating
VOCAL AND INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC EVERY EVENING
Breakfast, 7:30 to 12:30, 30c. Luncheon, 12:30 to 3, 30c. Dinner, 6 to 8, 35c.
Special Course Dinner Every Sunday and Holidays, 50c.
Telephones 4693 - 4694 Columbus	J* L. MARSHALL, Proprietor
THE SOUTHERN RESTAURANT
2229 Fifth Avenue
Bet. 136th and 136th Sts.
Real Home Cooking; Meals Served at All Hours.
REASONABLE RATES EXCELLENT SERVICE
Home-made Rolls Served Hot
’Phone 2877 Lenox
WHITE ROSE WORKING GIRLS’
HOME
217 East 86th Street
Bot. Second and Third Avenue*
Pleasant temporary lodgings for working girls,
with privileges, at reasonable rates. The Home
solicits orders for working dresses, aprons, etc.
Address:
MRS. FRANCES R. KEY8ER, Supt.
NORTH CAROLINA
SANDERS* HOTEL
301 S. Caldwell 8treet, Charlotte, N. 0.
Ideal location for transient and permanent
boarders. All modern conveniences and comfortB
of home life.
J. T. SANDERS
Proprietor
’Phone 081	Hot and Oold Baths
WARREN HOTEL
MISS BETTIE DUNCAN, Proprietress
First-class accommodations. Meals at all hours.
RATES REASONABLE
COR. RAMSEY AND PROCTOR STREETS
Threo Blocks from Union Station
DURHAM, N. 0.
Mention Thk Cbibis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
173
S. A. KELSEY, Pres.	DR. WM. J. CARTER, Chiropodist. MME. A. C. KELSEY, Gen’l Inatr.
The Kelsey School of Beauty Culture and Hair Dressing
328 Lenox Avenue, New York City
Manicuring, Shampooing. Hair Dressing, Beauty Culture, Hair Making and
Chiropody scientifically taught. Day and night sessions. Instructions given to
pupils in their own homes if desired. Diplomas awarded. Send for booklet-
directory of recently graduated students.
HOOT SUPREME OFFICERS OF THE		Hoo Hoo I	Hoo Hoo !	Hoo Hoo I
A A		SOMETHING NEW
		The Afro - American
iff		Order of Orioles
o o o		With a Graduated Scale of Endowment
Home Nest Tree 110J4 West Colfax Ave. South Bend, Ind.		WANTED—Organizers in every city in the United States. For particulars write G.	. Bland, H. S. P.. 110^ Colfax Avenue, South Bend, Indiana.
ESTABLISHED 1887	'Phone 4715 Mad. Sq.
L. A. de TOSCANO CO.
OLDEST COLORED REGALIA ESTABLISHMENT IN THE CITY
Knights of Pythias	BADGES	Paraphernalia
Knights Templars And Patriarchs	JEWELS	and Supplies for All Societies
Equipments	REGALIA	Estimates Given
Mme. B. E. de Toscano, Manager
146 WEST 31st STREET	Bet. Sixth and Seventh Avenuea	NEW YORK CITY
Telephone 3253 Harlem	CARPET CLEANING
CLEANERS AND RENOVATERS FOR PARTICULAR PEOPLE
NEW YORK CAREFUL CLEANING BUREAU
12 WEST 135TH STREET
We make a specialty of cleaning and renovating carpets rugs, portieres and upholstered
furniture, we also vacuum clean in the home. We are not the largest carpet cleaner in the
world, but absolutely the moat careful in every detail.
SHAMPOOING CARPETS AND RUGS OUR SPECIALTY
LADIES USE “VELVA”
A medicated cream, delightfully perfumed.
Unequalled for the comploxion. Heals rashes,
blackheads and pimples. A new and very scien-
tific production. Fifteen conts per box, postpaid.
Price list of toilet preparations free.
BEAUTIFUL ART EXHIBIT
Miss Cora Van Schoick is conducting a sale
and exhibit of unusual interest at the CLIO
SCHOOL. 487 6th Avenue, between 29th and 30th
Streets,-New York.
There is on sale hand-painted china and pil-
low tops, hand-made opera bags, pin cushions and
novelties. These hand creations are suggestive
for gifts and interior decorations.
ALEXANDER SPECIALTY COMPANY
160 Nassau Street	New York
Mention Th« Cw«k
174
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
_____________.Is Your Hair ^
Falling Out?
Your Hair Will Not Be Beautiful Unless It Is Healthy
When the hair splits, breaks off, falls out, or you have
an abnormal amount of dandruff, you need the attention
v .	of a hair specialist.	> f
Have	MADAME WALKER’S	Have
You	-*—PREPARATIONS—►	You
Dandruff will not only relieve these conditions and encourage F. f. ZG1T13.
——1 - a soft, healthy growth, but in using them you get the
?	advice and personal attention of Madame Walter, who	[
Sis regarded as an expert in the treatment of scalp diseases
---------- ADDRESS --------—
Madame C. J. WALKER
640 N. WEST STREET	INDIANAPOLIS, IND., U. S. A.
When You Send Out Letters
to several hundred people at the same time, do they look and read like a
“circular’* letter or a “personal” letter?
Letters that seem “personal” are always read with interest, while the
ordinary “circular” is passed unread and unnoticed to the waste basket.
If you plan to do some advertising by letters write me for informa-
tion about “letters that get the business.”
Address
ALBON L. HOLSEY
20 VESEY STREET	NEW YORK
Mention Tne Crisis.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION for the
ADVANCEMENT of COLORED PEOPLE
Offices: Suite 311, 20 Vesey Street, New York. Incorporated May 23, 1911
OBJECT.—The National Association
for the Advancement of Colored People
is an organization of persons who believe
that the present prejudice against colored
races, and particularly the denial of rights
and opportunities to ten million Americans
of Negro descent, is not only unjust and
a menace to our free institutions, but also
is a direct hindrance to World Peace and
the realization of Human Brotherhood.
METHODS.—The work is carried
on by four bureaus: 1. A Lecture Bureau.
2. A Bureau of Legal Assistance. 3. A
Bureau of Information. 4. A Bureau of
Publicity and Research.
The organ of the association is The
Crisis.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Terms Expire 1913
Mr. George W\ Crawford. New Haven
Jtev. G. K. Waller. Baltimoie
Kov. a. Clayton Powell. New York
P/- u''11,I.i/lm A. Sinclair. Philadelphia
Miss Lillian D. Wald. New York
Mr. Paul Kenuadjy. New York
Kev. Joseph Silverman. New York
Mr. Thomas Kwlng. Jr.. New York
Mr. Poland F. Nash. Brooklyn
Mr. Joseph P. Loud. Boston
Terms Expire 1914
Miss Mary White Ovlngton. Brooklyn
Kev. W. II. Brooks. New York
Mrs. F. K. Keyser. New York
Mr. Charles Edward Russell. New York
Dr. W. E. B. Du Bois. New York
Miss Jane Addams. Chicago
Mrs. Florence Kelley. New York
Dr. C. E. Bentley. Chicago
Mrs. M. C. Terrell, Wasl ling ton
Dr. N. F. Mossell. Philadelphia
Terms Expire 1915
Mr. Moor field Storey. Boston
Mr. Oswald Garrison Vlllard. New York
Mr. John E. Milholland. New York
Mrs. M. D. Maclean. New York
Mr. Walter E. Sachs. New York
Mr. Joel E. Splngarn. New York
Rev. John Haynes Holmes. New York
Bishop Alexander Walters. New York
Mr. William English Walling. New York
Dr. O. M. Waller. Brooklyn
ORGANIZATION.—Membership is
open to all. The annual fee varies from
$1 to $23. Life memberships are $500.
The cost of the association for the last
twelve months was $9,000.
We need $1 4,000 for the coming year.
OFFICERS
National President — Mr. Moorfield
Storey, Boston, Mass.
Vice-Presidents—
Mr. John E. Milholland, New York.
Bishop Alexander Walters, New York.
Rev. Garnet R. Waller, Baltimore.
Chairman of the Executive Committee—
Mr. Oswald Garrison Villard, New
York.
Treasurer—Mr. Walter E. Sachs, New
York.
Director of Publicity and Research—Dr.
W. E. B. Du Bois, New York.
Secretary—Miss Mary W. Ovington,
New York.
Assistant Secretary — Miss Martha
Gruening, New York.
ADVISORY COMMITTEE
iliss Gertruda Bamum, New York
Miss Frances Blasceer. New York
Prof. John Dewey. New York
Dr. John Lovejoy Elliott. New York
Mr. Hamilton Holt. New York
311ss Maud R. IngersoLl, New York
Rev. Horace G. Miller. New York
Mrs. Max Morgenthau. Jr.. New York
Mr. James F. Morion. Jr.. New York
Mr. Henry Moskowitz. New York
Miss Leonora O'Reilly, New York
Mr. Jacob H. Schiff. New York
Prof. E. R. A. Sellgman. New York
Mrs. Anna Carlin Spencer. New York
Mrs. Henry Vlllard. New York.
Dr. Stephen S. Wise. New York
Mr. D. Macon Webster. Brooklyn. N. Y.
Mr. Geo. E. Wibecan. Jr.. Brooklyn. N. Y.
Mrs. W. H. Talbert. Buffalo. N. Y.
Hon. Tlios. M Osborne. Auburn. N. Y.
Mr. W. L. Bulkley. Ridgefield Park. N. J.
Miss Maria Baldwin. Boston. Mass.
Mr. Francis J. Garrisou. Boston. Mass.
Mr. Arcldbald H. Grimke. Boston. Mass.
>Uss Adelene Moffat. Boston. Mass.
Hon. Albert E. Pillsbury. Boston. >L»ss.
Mr. Wm. Munroe Trotter. Boston. Mass.
Dr. Horace Bumstead. Brookline. Mass.
Miss Elizabeth C. Carter. New Bedford. Mass.
Prest. Chas. T.Thwlng. Cleveland. O.
Mr. Chas. W. Chesnutt. Cleveland. O.
Hon. Harry C. Smith. Cleveland, O.
Prest. H. C King. Oberlln. O.
Prest. XV. S. Scarborough. Wllberforce. O.
Mrs. Ida B. Wells Barnett. Chicago. 111.
Miss Sophronisba Breckenridge. Chicago. 111.
Mr. Clarence Darrow. Chicago. 111.
Mr. Julius Rosenwald. Chicago. 111.
Mrs. Celia Parker Woolley. Chicago. HL
Mr. F. L. McGhee. St. Paul. Minn.
Miss Frances Bartholomew. Philadelphia. Pa
Miss Susan Wharton. Philadelphia. Pa.
Mr. R. It. Wright. Jr.. Pliiladelphla. Pa.
Mr. W. Justin Carter. Harrisburg. Pa.
Rev. Harvey Johnson. D. D.. Baltimore. Md
Hon. Wm S. Bennet. Washington. D. C.
Mrs. Carrie W. Clifford. Washington. D. C
Mr L. M. Hershaw. Washington. D. C.
Prof. Kelly Miller. Washington. D. C.
Prof. L. B. Moore. Washington. D. C.
Justice W. P. Stafford. Washington. D. C
Rev. J. Milton Waldron. Washington. D. p
Prest. John Hope. Atlanta, Ga.
Mr. Leslie P. Hill. Manassas. Va.
Mr. William Pickens. Talladega. Ala.
THE DIFFERENCE
Between “GOOD ENOUGH** and the “BEST** is the
difference between ordinary print-shop work and ours.
Our facilities and long years of experience give
our work that INDIVIDUALITY which you appreciate in
your printed things.
We refer you to Mr. Conde Nast of Vogue and
Dr. W. F;. B. Du Bois of The Crisis.
By the way, we print The Crisis. Do you like
it? If so, let us make an estimate on your work.
ROBERT N. WOOD ™
^Iake Your Spare Moments Profitable
Q The continued growth of'The Crisis necessitates the extension of our
field force, and we need representatives in all cities to establish sub-agencies
and look after renewals.
If you can spare a few hours each month to look after our interests
in your city, we can make you a proposition that will interest you. The
work is dignified as well as profitable.
Address, and send references to
FRANK M. TURNER, Circulation Manager
20 VESEY STREET	NEW YORK
Mention Th* Crisis.
Volume Three
MARCH, 1912
Number Five
ONE DOLLAR A YEAR
TEN CENTS A COPY
Publishers’ Chat with Readers
ENLARGEMENT
Our advertising is encroaching on our reading matter to such an
extent that some enlargement of our space is necessary. Beginning with
the Easter number, therefore, THE CRISIS will be 48 instead of 44 pages.
THE CRISIS FOR APRIL
1 he Easter number will be the best number we have ever issued, and
that is saying a good deal. The cover will be a reproduction in the
original colors of an exquisite water color by Richard Brown, the new
young colored artist, protege of the N. A. A. C. P., who has been pronounced
by a great English critic ‘'one of the two best artists in America.’’ Mr.
Brown is painting this picture especially for THE CRISIS.
Beside this we are glad to announce one of the literary events of
the year, a new short story, “The Doll,’’ by Charles W. Chesnutt.
This is Mr. Chesnutt’s only published work since “The Colonel’s
Dream,’7 and is done in his usual inimitable style.
NTAV DRESS Simultaneously with our enlargement will come some changes in
typography a wider column, some decorative initials and many minor matters to
increase the comfort of the reader. In fact, we propose to have the best-printed
magazine in America before we are satisfied.
BOOKS—When our advertising man wanted to open a department for the sale of
books we were a bit doubtful. Now that he has already sold over $200 worth we are
convinced. He is prepared to-day to execute all your book orders at the lowest rates.
We handle all published books on any subject. Try us.
PICTURES—We sell pictures. Imagine, for instance, the head of our cover girl
on heavy tinted paper for framing! Onlv 15 cents. Then there’s Douglass, John
Brown, anybody, at a very reasonable rate. Write us.
CIRCULATION—Our business man says we shall have to print 20,000 copies for
Easter. We ran out last month and had to disappoint several agents.
ADVERTISING—We consider ourselves fortunate in having reached that stage
where we may point with pride to a list of satisfied advertisers, who, by their
expressions of confidence in our worth as an advertising medium, have made us such
a factor in the business world as to warrant our asking a higher price for advertising
space.
First and foremost with us is the desire to gain and retain the confidence of
our readers and advertisers. To this end we have kept our standard high by offering
the most reliable advertisements, and this policy will be strictly followed.
Beginning May 1, 1912, the advertising rates will be advanced to 10 cents per
line, agate measurement (14 lines to the inch), but all contracts made prior to that
date will be honored at the present low rate until the date of their expiration.
To those to whose support and encouragement we owe the existence of THE
CRISIS we promise that our most sincere efforts will be made to bring together the
best representatives of the world’s commercial highway, with a tempting variety of
luxuries and necessities, making our advertising department a real department store
where each member of the family may shop “by the fireside.”
The following; excerpts from letters may be of interest to our readers
and advertisers:
“The results to date have been very satisfac-
tory to us; the replies received indicating that
your magazine has a good circulation among
mail order buyers.
“We have advertised in a number of maga-
zines and have paid as high as $7 per line for
space, and 'in many cases the results were not
equal to those received from your magazine in
which the rates are very much lower."
“I am pleased to inform you that my adver-
tisement in THE CRISIS has brought satis-
factory results. This morning’s mail brings me
a letter from Pennsylvania and one from
Kansas.’'
“Please find enclosed check for $8 to settle
our account. Wo had a few important inquiries
from .your many readers and will call on you
again.’ ’
THE CRISIS
A RECORD OF THE DARKER RACES
Published by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, at
20 Vesey Street, New York City.
W. B. BURGHARDT DU BOIS. Editor
M. D. MACLEAN, Managing Editor
FRANK M. TURNER, Circulation Manager
ALBON L. HOLSEY,- Advertising Manager
Contributing
Editors
OSWALD GARRISON VILLARD
J. MAX BARBER
CHARLES EDWARD RUSSELL
W. S. BRAITHWAITE
KELLY MILLER
Subscription: $1.00 a year; 50 cents for six months. Foreign subscriptions, 25 cents extra.
CONTENTS FOR MARCH, 1912
COVER PICTURE. By John Henry Adams.
PAGE
ALONG THE COLOR LINE.................................... 183
MEN OF THE MONTH........................................ 190
OPINION ................................................ 192
EDITORIAL ............................................   197
THE DRAMA IN COLORED AMERICA—1.......................... 198
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE ..................................... 203
A FEDERAL REMEDY FOR LYNCHING. By the Hon. A. E. Pillsbury.. .. 205
THE BURDEN.............................................. 209
HISTORIC DAYS IN MARCH. By L.	M.	Hershaw............... 210
WHAT TO READ. By Jessie Fauset.......................... 211
WELCOME WORDS
For the past year the country at large has read
with increasing interest and instruction your splen*
did publication, The Crisis. It is no doubt the
ablest and most timely publication of the day deal-
ing with the problems of the darker races. Splen-
didly arranged, unrivaled in the force and power
‘of its editorship, difficult to be surpassed in lit-
erary form, The Crisis is the most potent and
convincing voice pleading to a_ prejudiced world
for the liberty, equality and justice to colored
peoples. I have enjoyed and learned much from
it and I believe that its appearance has increased
the inspiration of the darker peoples and strength-
ened their determination in the United States and
elsewhere to continue the struggle for justice and
freedom to the very end. As an evidence that
may continue and prosper I have done for it what
I do not do for anybody—ask for subscriptions.
George W. Ellis,
Chicago, 111.
Agents wanted who. c
Entered as second-class matter in
I am writing: to congratulate you upon the edi-
torial. “The Gall of Bitterness, and upon secur-
ing for The Crisis the picture “The Social Life
of Colored America.” Both will make particularly
good impression upon the readers of The Crisis.
The editorial is simply perfect: could not be im-
proved upon. We have received several letters
from our subscribers who have received the two
recent issues of The Crisis expressing their
thanks and praise for the publication.
Yours faithfully,
N. F. Moss ell,
Philadelphia, Pa.
May I take this opportunity to congratulate you
on the excellent magazine you are publishing and
on the splendid success ot the same? Sincerely
wishing you a continuance of all this, I am.
Yours for the race,
Ida Wells Barnett,
Chicago, 111.
in furnish references.
the post offico st New York City.
180
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
FORWARD
MARCH YOUR SON OFF TO
W lib erf orce University
The only school in the country for
Negro Youth which has a Military De-
partment equipped by the National
Government, and commanded by a detailed
United States Army Officer.
DEPARTMENTS
MILITARY	SOIENTiriO
NORMAL	TECHNICAL
COMMERCIAL	THEOLOGICAL
CLASSICAL	MUSICAL
PREPARATORY
Banking taught by the actual operations
in the Students’ Savings Bank. Twelve
Industries, 180 acres of beautiful campus,
Ten Buildings. Healthful surroundings,
exceptional community. Maintained in
part by the State of Ohio which supplies
facilities for the thorough training of
teachers.
Fall term began September 19th, 1911.
Write for Catalog.
W. S. SCARBOROUGH, President
WM. A. JOINER, Superintendent, C. N.
I. Department.
Address all communications to
BOX 86	WILBERFORCE, OHIO
Atlanta University
la beautifully located in the City of Atlanta, Ga.
The courses of study include High School, Nor-
mal School and College, with mamial training
and domostio science. Among the teachers are
graduates of Yale, Harvard, Dartmouth, Smith
and Wellesley. Forty-ono yoarB of successful
work have been completed. Students come from
all parts of the South. Graduates are almost
universally successful.
For further information address
President EDWARD T. WARE
ATLANTA, GA.
Knoxville College
Beautiful Situation, Healthful Location
The Best Moral and Spiritual Environment
A Splendid Intellectual Atmosphere
Noted for Honest and Thorough Work
Offers full courses in the following depart-
ments: College, Normal, High School, Grammar
School and Industrial.
Good water, steam heat, electric lights, good
drainage. Expenses very reasonable.
Opportunity for Self-help.
Fall Term Opened Sept. 27, 1911.
For information address
President H W. McGranaiian
KNOXVILLE, TENN.
Ulrginia Union University
RICHMOND, VA.
A Oollego Department, of high standards and
modern curriculum.
A Theological Department, with all subjects
generally required in the best theological
seminaries.
An Academy, with manual training, giving
a preparation for life or for college.
The positive moral and religious aim of the
school, its high standards of entrance and of
class work, its fine now buildings and well-
equippod laboratories and library, prepare a
faithful student for a life of wide usefulness.
GEORGE RICE HOVEY, President
MAYERS* INDUSTRIAL SCHOOL
BOARDING AND DAY SCHOOL
For the industrial, literary, moral and religiouB
training of the Negro youth.
Terms reasonable.
For particulars addresB
FLORA E. MAYERS, Principal
606 Payno Street	Knoxville, Tenn.
Lest you forget, we remind
you that the Easter-CRISIS
will be brimful of good
things for every member
of the family.
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
181
A Social Study of the Negro in New York
HALF A MAN
By
MARY WHITE OVINGTON
With a Foreword by Dr. Franz Boas, of Columbia University
This book is the result of years of careful study and personal acquaint-
ance with actual conditions in New York.
Its truths being applicable to all communities where the two races live
together, it must be considered one of the best social studies of recent years.
Price, $1.00; by mail, $1.12.
LONGMANS, GREEN & CO^ Publishers, NEW YORK
gAir3 This book is for sale in the Book Department of The CRISIS, 20
Vesey St., New York.
A Novel
by
VV. E. BURGHARDT
DU BOIS
Drawings by
H.	S. DE LAY
Here is a story of the darker world
in the South and in Washington, D. C.
It is dramatic in style and absorbing
in interest and expresses the feeling
of colored people about themselves
and their own problems; at the same
time it shows how both black folk
and white are caught in the power of
King Cotton.
AT ALL BOOKSTORES
PRICE $1.35 NET
A.	G. McGLURG & CO.
New York	Chicago San Francisco
Atlanta University
Studies of the
Negro Problems
15 Monographs. Sold Separately.
Address:
A. G. DILL
Atlanta University, Atlanta, Ga.
PUBLICATIONS
A. M. E. Book Concern Philadelphia, Pa.
THE POEMS OF PHILLIS WHEATLEY.
Reprint of first edition 1773; a valuable book.
Price, $1.00.
THE NEGRO PROBLEM. An analysis: What
It Is Not and What It Is; by R. R. Wright, Jr.
in pamphlet form, 15 cents.
THE COLORED REGULARS. Br T. G.
Steward, Chaplain U. S. A., retired. Price, f 1.50.
EVOLUTION AND LITE. By Algernon B.
Jackson, Suxgeon-in-chief Mercy HoapitaL Prico,
75 cents.
THE NEGRO IN PENNSYLVANIA. A 8tudy
in Economic History; By R. R. Wright, Jr.,
Sometime Research Fellow in Sociology in the
University of Pennsylvania. Price, Paper, $9.00;
Cloth, $9.50.
Address
A. M. E. BOOH CONCERN
631 Pine Street,	Philadelphia, Fa.
Tine
Quest
of the
Silver
Fleece
Mention The Crisis.
18?	THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
The Testing Fire
By ALEXANDER CORKEY
Author of “The Victory of Allan Rutledge"
Is the Sanest Story Ever Written on the
Race Problem
It is the first story ever written on the race ques-
tion, by a white man, that is not antagonistic to the
colored race.
EVERY FREEDMAN SHOULD READ IT
Through its pages runs a sweet romance, but it
is more than a love story. It is a novel of uplift,
accomplishment and promise.
No One Interested in the Race Question Should Miss It
Price $1.25 net; postage 10 cents extra.
The H. K. FLY COMPANY, Publishers
NEW YORK CITY
This book is for sale in the book department of The CRISIS,
20 Vesey Street, New York.
THE LIFE AND WORKS OF
Paul Laurence Dunbar
Containing his complete poetical works, his best short
stories, numerous anecdotes and a complete biography of
the famous poet.
EXTRACT FROM INTRODUCTION.
I think I should scarcely trouble the reader with a special appeal
in behalf of this book if it had not specially appealed to me for
reasons apart from the author'B race, origin and condition. The
world is too old now and I find myself too much of its mood to care
for the work of a poet because ho is black; because his father and
mother were slaves; because be was, before and after he began to
write poems, an elevator boy. These facts would certainly attract
me to him as a man if I knew him to have a literary ambition, but
when it came to his literary art, I must judge it irrespective of these
facts, and enjoy or endure it for what it was in itself.
—William Dean Howells.
Profusely illustrated with over half a hundred full-page
photo and half-tone engravings.
Cloth $2 Half Morocco $2.75 Full Morocco $3.75
------------------- SALES AGENT ------------------
J. G. GUILES
214A St. Antoine Street	Montreal, Can.
Mention Tue Crisis.
THE CRISIS
Volume TLi
MARCH, 1912
Number Five
ALONG
COLOR
SOCIAL UPLIFT.
The project for a Xegro exposition
in commemoration of the fiftieth anni-
versary of emancipation has not been
given up by R. R. W right of Savannah,
Ga., who originally proposed it.
A delegation of colored men appeared
before a senate committee on exposi-
tions lately and it looks as though a
bill appropriating $250,000 might pass
through Congress.
The State of Pennsylvania has appro-
priated $20,000 for an exposition in
Philadelphia. H. \V. Bass, the colored
member of the Pennsylvania Legisla-
ture, is at the head of the work, but his
efforts are being hampered by the white
politicians, who are determined to use
the appropriation as a bribery fund.
The fight is being watched with con-
siderable interest.
The State of New York is contemplat-
ing a similar appropriation for the Phila-
delphia celebration.
CJ The Harriet Tubman Home of
Auburn, X. Y., is still in need of about
$15 a month to pay its expenses. Con-
tributions sent to Rev. A. E. Brooks
will be acknowledged.
CJ The Philadelphia Association for the
Protection of Colored Women reports
that it cared for 900 girls during the last
year.
<3 In Virginia eighteen counties ob-
served Colored Tuberculosis Day. Feb-
ruary 12.
<3 Mrs. Emeline Reavy of Newark, X. J.,
has left bequests to a colored church
in Orange and to the Old Folks’ Home
at Irvington.
(j The officers of the Xational Guard
Association and others connected with
the Xew York militia are still fighting
vigorously the proposal to organize a
Xegro regiment.
<3 Howard E. Primus, a colored boy.
won the $10 gold prize ‘at Camden,
X.	J.. for an oration in a contest between
high-school seniors.
Cl The Socialist Xational Convention,
which may meet at Oklahoma City in
May. will' take up the Xegro question
in all probability. The last time that
the Socialists touched the question was
in the convention of 1901. when they
passed resolutions which contained the
following passages:
"Resolved, That we. the Socialists of
America,	in national	convention as-
sembled. do hereby assure our Xegro
fellow worker of our sympathy with
him in his subjection to lawlessness and
oppression, and also assure him of the
fellowship	of the	workers who suffer
from the lawlessness and exploitation of
capital in every nation or tribe of the
world.
“Resolved.	That	we.	the American
Socialist party, invite the Xegro to mem-
bership and fellowship with us in the
world movement for economic emancipa-
tion. by which equal liberty and oppor-
tunity shall be secured to every man and
fraternity	become	the	order of the
world.” '
CJ The latest census records relating to
the colored population in the various
divisions of the United States as com-
pared with 1900 are as follows:
184
THE CRISIS
Division and State.	Number.		Per cent, of total.		Increase, 1910- 1900. 	 » ■ 				
	1910.	1900.	1910.	1900!	r Number.	Per cent.
United States—Total....	9,S28,294	8,833,994	10.7	11.6	994,300	11.3
Geographic Divisions:						
New England 		66,294	59,099	1.0	1.1	7,195	12.2
Middle Atlantic 		417.S49	325.921	2-2	2*1	91,928	28.2
East North Central.	300,779	257,S42	1.6	1.6	42,937	16.7
West North Central.	243,241	237,909	2.1	2.3	5,332	2.2
South Atlantic 		4,112.4S7	3,729.017	33.7	35.7	383,470	10.3
East South Central.	2,652,506	2,499,8S6	31.5	33.1	152,620	6.1
West South Central.	1,9S4,397	1,694,066	22.6	25.9	290,331	17.1
Mountain 		21,519	15,590	0.8	0.9	5,929	38.0
Pacific 		29,222	14,664	0.7	0.6	14,558	99.3
The colored people of Vancouver,
B.	C., have, organized the Negro Christ-
ian Alliance for the purpose of champion-
ing the rights of colored people and
raising their general status. Mr. Milton
P.	Fuller is president. They have
bought a lot and will erect a hall for
meetings. The organization is incorpo-
rated under the Benevolent Societies Act
of British Columbia.
Wood’s directory, 1912, of New
Orleans shows the remarkable organiza-
tion of the. colored population of that
city. They have six asylums and homes,
thirty-nine churches, six clubs, three hos-
pitals, sixteen schools and one theatre.
There are 230 benevolent organizations
and twenty-two trades unions. There
are listed in the trade directory six
bands, thirty-five contractors and build-
ers, six dentists, nineteen physicians,
seven druggists, three hotels, two
industrial insurance companies, five law-
yers, thirty-nine midwives and trained
nurses, twenty-four music teachers,
twenty-one painters and paperhangers,
three photographers, eleven printers and
binders, eight tailors and eight under-
takers.
Cj| In Greenville, Miss., there are five col-
ored physicians, an insurance society
with assets of over $70,000; a grocery
store, a bank, a pharmacy, three lawyers,
a dozen churches and four public schools.
Most of the mechanics and employees in
the oil mills are colored and the leading
contractor, Mr. George Braddock, is
colored.
*J A theatre designed exclusively for
Negroes, at which only Negro talent will
be employed, has just been opened in
Chattanooga and is the only one of its
kind in the State. The new theatre has
a seating capacity of about 700, with six
boxes on each side. The stage is equipped
with every feature to be found in a first-
class vaudeville house and good perform-
ances are promised.
Q The “Flying Squadron,” which is the
name of the young women’s auxiliary to
the N. A. A. C. P., is holding a series
of private entertainments preparatory to
a larger affair in the spring. The first
was held at the home of Miss Dora
THE CAPTAIN OF THE DRILL
Cole. The Utopia Neighborhood Club of
New York, which is a similar organiza-
tion for aiding and establishing a delin-
quent home for colored girls, has given a
carnival, in which Miss M. G. Allison was
captain of the drill.
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
185
q Francis L. Holmes, the colored jumper
of Chicago, competed at the athletic
meet held in New York February 22.
He may be chosen to make the trip to
Stockholm in June.
q The fourth annual convention of
the Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity was
held at Ann Arbor, Mich. This is a
colored Greek-letter fraternity, which
has twelve active chapters in the best
universities of the country. Charles H.
Garvin of Howard was elected president.
POLITICAL.
Great activity has become manifest in
Washington to secure the Negro vote.
The colored officeholders are engaged
in minimizing Mr. Taft's wholesale dis-
missal of colored officers from the United
States service.
Two long conferences with these office-
holders have been held at the White
House when the proposed Hook appoint-
ment and the President’s policy in the
South were discussed.
q The Negroes of Boley, Okla., have
formed an Independent Voters’ League,
and declared they will vote in future
regardless of political parties.
q A curious story comes from Wash-
ington with many earmarks of credi-
bility: The recorder of deeds, H. L.
Johnson, was appointed through the in-
fluence of Secretary Hitchcock. Secre-
tary Hitchcock is now leaning toward
the Roosevelt faction and has broken
with Johnson. Johnson hastened to the
White House and was received into the
Taft camp, and is now promoting the
election of Taft delegates in Georgia.
q At the Republican dollar dinner held
at Wheeling, W. Va., a colored man,
Mr. E. J. Graham, Jr., was present and
spoke.
q Mr. A. P. Prioleau of South Caro-
lina is again contesting the seat of G. S.
Legare in the House of Representatives
at Washington.
q The Democrats of Delaware are vig-
orously denying that they have been
promoting a Negro Democratic Club.
THE GHETTO.
A bill has been presented to the
legislature of Virginia to empower and
authorize every county and city council
in the State to prescribe the bounds for
residential purposes of blacks and
whites. There are penalties for viola-
tion of the law.
q The mayor of Cincinnati has closed
one of the prosperous colored theatres
for reasons not clear to the colored
people.
q Dr. E. P. Roberts has been made
physical examiner in the New York pub-
lic schools. A few patrons of the
school have made a faint protest, which
has been ignored.
q Ben. Salter, a colored man of Pensa-
cola, Fla., has entered suits for $70,000
damages in the Federal Court at Mont-
gomery against seven prominent white
farmers of Crenshaw county, Alabama,
alleging that they were members of a
mob which, in December, 1910, drove
him and his family from their farm in
Crenshaw county, burned Salter's dwell-
ing house, destroyed and carried off
property to the value of $2,500 and
forced Salter to leave the State.
Salter alleges that he was beaten by
the mob and taken into custody by the
sheriff of the county to save his life,
and that after liberation he moved from
Alabama to protect his life.
q Mrs. Lily Hill, of Washington county,
Tenn., has been pardoned by Governor
Hooper. She was convicted last Octo-
ber and sentenced to eleven years and
twenty-nine days in jail. The pardon
record says: “It appears from the state-
ment of the attorney-general that this
colored woman is a respectable and
well-behaved married woman and had
been previously molested by the prose-
cuting witness in the case, and that
she was assaulted by said prosecutor in
a public street because she resented his
attentions a second time, and, when
she was pressed by him, drew a pistol
from a handbag and shot him in the
arm.”
q The Baltimore & Ohio Railroad tried
to establish a Jim Crow waiting room
in Baltimore. The colored people com-
pelled it to give up the project.
q A colored attorney’of Detroit has pre-
sented a protest to Governor Osborn
of Michigan against the refusal of the
State School at Coldwater to admit col-
ored children. The governor promises
to investigate.
EDUCATION.
The Western University for Negroes
at Quindaro, Kan., has erected a monu-
ment to John Brown at a cost of $2,000.
The money was subscribed by colored
people throughout the United States in
small amounts.
q Miss Urnestine Bell, a graduate of
the normal department of Atlanta Uni-
versity in the class of 1910. received the
highest grade of any teacher, white or
colored, in Atlanta, in the examination
for teacher’s certificate.
186
THE CRISIS
<1 Morris Brown College of Atlanta has
purchased several hundred acres of land
in East Macon, Ga. The whole institu-
tion may be moved there.
<2 At Belcher, La., the colored people
have donated twelve acres of land as a
site for an agricultural school.
Three colored women have been re-
appointed by Governor Hadley of Mis-
souri as members of the board of man-
agers of the State Industrial School for
Negro Girls. The general assembly has
appropriated $6,500 for purchasing nec-
essary ground.
C The colored schools of Washington
sold $137 worth of Red Cross stamps.
C At Norfolk, Ya., a new colored school
building, to contain sixteen rooms and
to cost $32,500. has been started. It
will seat S00 pupils.
Ci Judge Pritchard and General Julian
S. Carr have been speaking in the North
in support of the colored religious
training school at Durham, N. C.
<3 Faustin S. Delaney, a colored teacher
of Louisville, lately deceased, has left
$500 to Wilberforce University toward
maintaining a chair in the science
department.
CJ The Secretary of the Interior, in his
annual report, says of Howard Uni-
versity, among other things:
“The science hall is well equipped for
efficient work in the several departments
of physics, chemistry and biology. The
eager response of the student body to
the new facilities offered is seen in the
fact that more than 600 students are
regularly instructed in these several
branches, with practical laboratory work
offered in each department of study.
Instead of one professor and one
instructor, who gave their entire time
to the sciences, the work now requires
three professors, one assistant professor,
three regular instructors, and seyen
student assistants, giving their time to
the wotk of scientific instruction.
“It has been often said that while col-
ored students were proficient in the lan-
guages, history, etc., they showed no
adaptation to the exact sciences. But
the eager response of this great body of
colored students to the opportunities
here for the first time offered in any
large way for advanced laboratory work
in the exact sciences, marks an era in
the educational life of the Negro race.
The possible application of the practical
instruction here received must have an
important bearing on the future welfare
of the race.”
C[ New Orleans has raised the wages of
her white teachers, but refused to make
any change in the salaries of the col-
ored teachers. The average wages in
the State before the change were:
Whites, $56.16 per month; colored,
$29.87.
CHURCH.
St. Thomas Church, Philadelphia, the
oldest colored Episcopal church in the
United States, and one of the oldest
churches in the country, is about to sell
its Twelfth Street property in Philadel-
phia, and move nearer the new centers
of colored residence.
C The Rev. Levi N. Powers, D. D., of
Haverhill, Mass., in a recent discussion'
of lynching, announced that "If a Negro
committed an atrocious crime against
any member of my family I would go
out and help lynch him.”
The Methodist Episcopal Church is
still discussing th£ question of erecting
its colored membership in a separate
and independent body.
<3 Thirty years ago, in the Lancaster
hills of Pennsylvania, lived a number
of lawless gangs of white and colored
desperadoes. The Rev. Melford H.
Haggler, a colored preacher, settled
among them, and, after years of hard
work, has succeeded in transforming the
character of the neighborhood.
<3 The Catholics of Atlanta, Ga., have
purchased property on which they pro-
pose to erect a Negro church. Indigna-
tion is expressed by the neighboring
white property owners and the bishop
is being asked to withdraw.
<3 The committee of the Episcopal
council of South Carolina has recom-
mended a Negro suffragan bishop.
ECONOMICS.
The Los Angeles Examiner publishes
a letter from a porter, which says that
Pullman porters “must furnish the best
references, keep neat and clean, be
polite, and perform their duties faith-
fully. T hey are held strictly responsible
for shortage or losses of car equipment,
such as blankets, pillows, bed linen,
towels, combs, brushes, etc. Every
month ninety per cent, of the 7,000
porters have deducted from their wages
from twenty-five cents to $1.50. Pull-
man conductors get from $70 to $90 per
month, according to seniority or time
they have been in the service; but the
porter, who has served from five to forty
years, only received $25 per month, until
last year, when their salaries were in-
creased ten per cent., making $27.50 now.
He gets no credit for seniority, and
receives no more pay or consideration
than the new man who has only worked
a month.”
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
187
G A South American correspondent of
the Richmond Planet says: “The
Negroes were only freed in Brazil in
1888, and here you can find Negro pro-
fessors teaching white and black alike.
You can find Negroes filling all grades
of office in the army and navy; you can
find Negroes in all branches of political
or public service from the president
down to a common soldier or policeman
or sailor. You find here the Negroes
are captains of ships, pilots, mates,
engineers of both ships and trains, con-
ductors. motormen, baggagemasters, ma-
chinists and every other thing that they
are capable of doing.*'
G The large business interests of Atlanta
are securing the enforcement of an
obsolete law which taxes peddlers $50
a year. It is driving the small colored
peddlers out of business, and they are
protesting against it.
G The Indianapolis Colored Young
Men’s Christian Association has pur-
chased a site for its building at a cost
of $6,000.
G N. E. Barnes, a colored inventor of
Willis, Tex., has invented a station
indicator and an improved bulletin board
for street cars.
G Lucian Headen. a colored aviator of
New York, has been awarded a gold
medal and has patented an equalizer,
which prevents airships from tilting
when falling.
PERSONAL.
David Hazleton, a veteran porter in
the office of the president of the Balti-
more & Ohio Railroad, has recently died.
He entered the service of the railroad in
1S74. and for more than thirty years has
been in charge of the official cars of the
railroad’s presidents.
During that time he crossed the con-
tinent hundreds of times in charge of
special parties and with officials of the
railroad. He has ridden over practi-
cally every mile of railroad track in North
America, from the Isthmus of Panama
to the northernmost lines in Canada.
He was six feet tall and made a striking
appearance in his uniform of royal blue
trimmed in gold and cap slightly tilted.
Hazleton had charge of presidential
parties from General Grant down "to Mc-
Kinley and Roosevelt. General Grant
was numbered as one of his favorite
guests. President Cleveland also fre-
quently traveled with him. When he
started on his honeymoon he made a
special request that Hazleton be placed
in charge of his car.
G Fred. S. Stone, a colored musician and
composer, is dead.
G Miss Ida Lee, a colored girl of Ken-
tucky, has received a bequest of $3,000
for saving the life of a wealthy woman
in a runaway in 1909.
G John Walker, a colored drayman, of
Madison, Ga., has a bronze medal and
$500 for saving the life of his employers
in a runaway.
G The census shows that the oldest man
in the country is an Indian Negro of
Colorado, known as Cherokee Bill. He
is reported to be 114 years of age and
is worth $80,000.
G In the January Crisis we published
the picture of Edward Wilmot Blvden,
the “Grand Old Man” of West Africa.
Dr. Blvden died February 8 at the age
of 79. He had had many honors
bestowed upon him. In 1863. after the
publication of his work on Liberia,
he received the honorary degree of
A. M. from Hamilton College. Lafayette
College conferred the degree of D. D.
upon him in 1870. and in 1874 he
was made an LL. D. by Lincoln Uni-
versity. In 1882 he was elected corre-
sponding and honorary member of the
Society of Sciences and Letters of Ben-
gal. and he was also a member of the
Athenaeum Club of London.
G The funeral of the late Bishop Gaines
was a very elaborate service. There
were seven bishops present and many
distinguished ministers. He was interred
at Atlanta, Ga.
<3 Matthew A. Henson is still lecturing
on his trip to the North Pole. He
recently appeared before the Negro
Society for Historical Research at
Yonkers.
MEETINGS.
President John D. Hammond, of Paine
College. Augusta. Ga.. held a conference
on “The Relation of the Negro Problem
to the White People in the South.”
When it was announced that Dr. Ha-
mill. a Southern white pastor, would suc-
ceed the late George W. Walker, also a
white man. as head of Payne Institute,
for colored youths, in Augusta. Ga.. a
portion of his congregation at the fash-
ionable McKendree Church. Nashville,
Tenn., got up and filed out of the morn-
ing service.
G Me. W. E. B. Du Bois has been lectur-
ing in New England before the Twen-
tieth Century Club of Boston, the
People’s Forum of Braintree, and clubs
at Newport. Providence and Brockton.
G A protest against lynching has been
held in Faneuil Hall. Boston. One of
the speakers, the Rev. R. C. Ransom.
188
THE CRISIS
said: “Negroes themselves arc largely to
blame for the contempt in which -they
are held and the impunity with which
their liberties and their lives may be
invaded. Sheriffs, mayors, courts, gov-
ernors will not take seriously the inter-
ests of a people who have lost or sur-
rendered the right to retaliate or call
them to account at the ballot box. Mobs
do not quail when there is no fear that
their wild brutalities will be answered
by a volley of bullets.
“I am unwillingly but slowly coming
to the conclusion that the only way for
the Negro in particular, and the dark-
skinned people in general, to win and
hold the respect of white people is to
mete out to .them a white man’s measure
in all the relations of life.”
ART.
A very successful recital was given in
Boston by Clarence Cameron White,
violinist, and Mrs. Maud Cuney Hare,
pianist. On the program was Bruch’s
“Concerto in G Minor” and Coleridge
Taylor’s “African Dance No. 1.” Mr.
Rowland Hayes sang.
In the month of December the
Wellington Musical Union of Australia
gave their third subscription concert.
The patrons were his excellency, the
governor of New Zealand, Lord Isling-
ton, and the right honorable, the premier,
Sir Joseph G. Ward.
The work performed was Gounod’s
“Faust” in “oratorio” form. Mr. Hamil-
ton Hodges, baritone, of Auckland New
Zealand, sang the part of Mephistopheles.
According to the reviewers, “Mr.
Hodges was quite the best of the
soloists. He gave a fine rendering of
the role and was effective and con-
vincing.”
Mr. Hodges is a colored American,
having been born in Boston, Mass. For
many years he has made his home in
Auckland, New Zealand, where he main-
tains a studio and engages in concert
performances. Upon his return last year
from an extended visit to this country,
he was warmly welcomed by the
audiences, before whom he presented
an exacting programme, singing groups
of Italian, German, French and English
songs. The New Zealand Herald says
of this singer: “The programme was
one which no vocalist, unless absolutely
certain of the fullest possession of his
powers, would have had the temerity to
present to a critical audience—-his sing-
ing entirely justified his self-confidence.”
A music-study club of Washington,
D. C-, has been organized. Its mem-
bership is composed of musicians who
have studied the higher forms of music
composition and analysis. Its object is
personal development. Mr. Henry L.
Grant is the secretary.
CJ On January 26 the Washington Con-
servatory of Music, Washington, D. C.,
gave the second of the series of artists’
recitals, presenting the new director of
the vocal department, Mr. Harry A.
Williams, tenor, who was assisted by
Mr. Leonard Jeter, violoncellist, and
Mr. Henry L. Grant, pianist.
Mr. Williams sang modern songs, in-
cluding a group of French songs, and
one of his own compositions, “If I Were
King.”
Cj Illness prevented Landon Ronald
from conducting the New Symphony
Orchestra at their recent concert given
at Queen’s Hall, London. The con-
ducting was carried out by Sir Edward
Elgar and Mr. Samuel Coleridge-Taylor,
the latter directing Haydn symphony in
G and the orchestral accompaniment to
Saint-Saens’ G minor pianoforte con-
certo.
Mr. S. Coleridge-Taylor has lately
been chosen conductor of the Stock Ex-
change Orchestral Society, and the first
concert under his directorship was given
December 7 at Queen’s Hall.
q Mr. Harrison Emanuel, violinist, gave
a recital on January 29 at Kimball
Hall, Chicago, 111. He was assisted by
Mrs. Marie Burton-Hyram, soprano.
Mr. Emanuel presented a very fine pro-
gramme, which included Wieniawski’s
Concerto No. 2 and Kreisler’s Caprice
Viennous.
The Royal College of Music, London,
Eng., presented this season a successful
and interesting novelty in the form of
Mr. Douglas Taylor’s orchestral fantasy,
“Uncle Remus,” which was directed by
the composer. “Uncle Remus” stories
are based upon traditional Negro folk-
lore, and the mood of the piece shows
the suggestion of the subject.
Mr. George Chadwick’s new sym-
phonic suite was played on February 2
by Mr. Damrosch’s orchestra for the
first time in New York. The New York
Sun says of the work: “The salient char-
acteristic of the entire composition is
the frankness of its melodic style. This
suite betrays the awful fact that Mr.
Chadwick has been bitten by the
Dvorak American music insect. He has
not hesitated to write intellectual rag-
time, such as the Bohemian put into-
his American symphony. Nor has the
distinguished head of the New England
Conservatory shrunk from openly imi-
tating the melodic line of the Negro
tunes. On the whole, the composition is
well made and well orchestrated.”
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
189
CRIME.
Since our last record there have been
eight lynchings of colored people:
At Hamilton, Ga., three men and a
girl were killed for the alleged murder
of a white man. The sheriff from whom
the prisoners were taken is said to be
the uncle of the dead man. One despatch
says:
“Hadley was an unmarried planter,
and it is said he was infatuated with the
girl, Bertha Hathaway. He had been
pursuing the girl and had been warned
to keep away from her. He disregarded
the warning, however, and Sunday after-
noon went to the girl's home and tried to
get her to come out with him. While
Hadley was at the girl's home he was
shot, but no one knows by whom.
Henry Anderson, one of the Negroes
lynched, is said to have wanted to marry
the girl, and it is possible that he shot
the young planter. The first reports
stated that Hadley was killed at his own
house, but this was incorrect. The girl
was twenty years old.!’
At Cordele, Ga., a colored man was
lynched. He was accused of felonious
assault upon a white woman.
In Bessemer, Ala., a colored man,
accused of murder, was shot to death by
Italians.
In Vidalia. Ga.. a colored man was
lynched for murder. The lynchers are
said to have been Negroes.
In Macon, Ga., a colored man, accused
of assaulting and robbing a white woman,
was lynched and his body burned.
<3 In Hickman, Ky., the poor whites are
determined to run Negro laborers away,
while the rich planters are striving to
preserve cheap labor. A short time ago
two white men tried to kill a Negro, but
he succeeded in killing them. Later a
group of white men shot two Negro
boys, wounding them seriously. There
have been no arrests.
<3 Fifteen colored women have been
killed in Atlanta during the last year, and
the guilty parties have not been found.
<3 A white schoolboy in Indianapolis
deliberately shot an eleven-year-old col-
ored boy, who probably will not live.
There is some evidence of renewed
effort at Coatesville in ferreting out the
lynchers after a period of quiescence.
Three accused men are in jail and the
attorney-general is asking for a change
of venue.
COURTS.
A bill has been introduced into the
Maryland Legislature against lynching,
with severe penalties.
CJ Harry Foster Dean has been granted
a judgment of $300 in his suit against
the Chicago & New York Western Rail-
way because he was refused admission
to an elevator in the railroad station on
account of his color.
q The Knights of Pythias of Tennessee
have succeeded in getting a final court
decision, restraining the colored Knights
of Pythias from operating in the State.
^ The Supreme Court of Louisiana has
decided that the Negro has a right to
a seat in the portion of a car set aside
for white people provided there is no
space left in the colored portion of the
car. The case was that of Joseph Ander-
son against the New Orleans Railways
& Light Company. Anderson was
awarded $250 damages.
q A case of the greatest interest, involv-
ing the whole question of the color line,
is being argued before the South
African Appeal Court, consisting of Lord
De Villiers, the chief justice, and the
four other judges of appeal. The suit
is brought by a European landowner,
Mr. Moller, living in the Keimoes dis-
trict, in the northwest of Cape Colony.
He recently applied to the Cape Pro-
vincial Court for an order compelling
the local school authorities to admit his
two children to school. The contention
is that Mr. Moller’s wife is “off-colored,”
and on this account his children were
expelled from school, owing to the objec-
tions of the parents of other scholars.
The judge in the Cape Provincial Court
refused the application. Mr. Moller then
appealed to the full bench of the Cape
Provincial division, and his appeal was
dismissed. The matter now comes be-
fore the- highest tribunal in the land.
*3 Attorneys Hawkins & McMechen won
their first motion against the segregation
ordinance of Baltimore when they suc-
ceeded in blocking a motion to inter-
fere with a colored church which is on a
“white” street.
q A banquet was tendered Captain
Charles Young as he passed through
New York on his way to Liberia.
Eighteen men sat at table. The bill
of fare was in the form of an army
commission and the favors were swords.
Among the after-dinner speakers were
Bishop Walters. Collector Anderson and
the guest of honor. Captain Young
will have three commissioned officers
under him in Liberia, and will have
unusual powers of administration in
forming a constabulary,
q The Y. W. C. A. of Philadelphia, after
increasing its membership to 375 and
raising funds sufficient to employ a sec-
retary and pay all expenses for one
year, has become a branch of the main
association of that city and will be
included in the $500,000 building cam-
paign which is to be begun early next
fall.
MEN OF THE
MONTH
. ret-ATIftiFfyu
A COMPOSER.
Twice this year a colored composer
has led a white orchestra in a prominent
New York playhouse. 'In another land
and in another age this would be but
J. ROSAMOND JOHNSON
natural, for J. Rosamond Johnson, not-
withstanding his Negro blood, is a com-
poser whose music is known every-
where. “Under the Bamboo Tree,”
“Lazy Moon,” the “Congo Love Song"
—all these and many more songs are
his. Johnson was born in Jacksonville,
Fla., in 1873; studied at the New Eng-
land Conservatory of Music, and then
came to New York. He has developed
a new and distinct school of Negro
music, has written light opera for Klaw
& Erlanger, songs for May Irwin,
Lillian Russell and Anna Held, and- set
Dunbar to rare music. His long part-
nership with the gifted Bob Cole is
well known. All things considered, he
stands as the most versatile composer
of colored America and one of the
striking musical geniuses of the land.
TWO TEACHERS.
We present this month the pictures of
two teachers, Harriet E. Clifford and
Bessie B. Bruington. The first was
white and from Maine, in the extreme
East. The second is colored and works
in the extreme West, California.
Harriet Clifford was a New England
teacher, who gave her life to Negro
education in Georgia and died of tuber-
culosis last' summer. She was. an accom-
plished musician, and gave the best
years of her life to Atlanta University;
not simply as a teacher, but as the
friend and companion of her hundreds
of pupils.
Miss Bruington is a graduate of the
Los Angeles State Normal School. In
the examination for teachers she stood
seventh in a total of 300 persons exam-
ined, and was appointed to teach in the
Fifty-first Street public school. Her
four fellow teachers are white and her
pupils are of both races.
MISS BESSIE B. BRUINGTON
THE LATE BISHOP GAINES
Sale, as president of the Atlanta Baptist
College and later as superintendent of
Baptist institutions for colored people
throughout the South. He was a white
Canadian, a friend of both races in the
South, and far more successful than is
usual in maintaining pleasant and help-
ful social relations with both. His pre-
mature death is a great loss to the
statesmanship of the day.
A PRIZE-WINNER.
R. W. Overton, a sixteen-year-old
student of the Stuyvesant High School,
has recently won the long-distance
record for model aeroplanes over twenty
competitors from all the high schools of
Greater New York and vicinity.
THE LATE DOCTOR SALE
TWO LOST LEADERS.
In the passing of Wesley John Gaines,
sixteenth bishop of the African M. E.
Church, the Negro race has lost a
striking and powerful figure. Bishop
Gaines was a blood relative of Robert
Toombs and was born in slavery in
1S40. He had no opportunity for educa-
tion. but became a. shrewd leader, and
latterly the most active constructive
force in his church.
In the same city with Bishop Gaines
lived for many years Dr. George E.
THE LATE MISS CLIFFORD
REGINALD W. OVERTON
THE TERRORISTS.
The continued reign of the lynching
terror has brought some strong edi-
torials even in the South. The Galveston
News says: “Really, the record furnished
by the Tribune, noting the number of
people murdered and the number of exe-
cutions, reads like a grim and scan-
dalous'joke. There is no other enlight-
ened country in which any such con-
ditions would be deemed tolerable. Our
scheme of preserving order and stand-
ing up for the law would seem to be
based upon a most vicious and insup-
portable pretense. The record proves
that we as a people do not mean what
we say; that we do not stand for law
and order at all.”
The Atlanta Constitution adds: “Al-
most as if foreseeing the indefensible
quadruple lynching near Hamilton, in
Harris county, is the following comment
from the Macon Telegraph upon the
evil eminence occupied by Georgia with
respect to mob violence:
“‘To Georgia belongs the uenviable
distinction of contributing nineteen, or
more than one-fourth, of the .seventy-one
lynchings in 1911. Such, at least, is
the showing of the figures collected by
the Chicago Tribune, which performs
this service every year, and readers of
the daily dispatches are at any rate well
aware that illegal executions in this
State during the past twelve months
were shockingly frequent. *	*	* It
is gratifying to know that in spite of
the deplorable increase of lynchings in
Georgia, there was a considerable falling
off in the country as a whole. The total
of seventy-one in 1911 was the smallest
since the beginning of the record in
1885, in which year there were 184. The
largest total was 255 in 1892.’
“The Constitution heartily agrees with
the Telegraph that Georgia’s record in
this connection is ‘deplorable.’ Espe-
cially aggravated is the instance in
Harris county. The four Negroes upon
whom the mob wreaked its fury had
been arrested and held merely as sus-
pects. Proof to convict had not been
secured. Judge Price Gilbert, having
jurisdiction over the circuit in which the
crime was committed, had agreed to
hold a special session of court to try
the accused. Beyond a doubt the
accused would have been given fair
trial, and, their guilt even reasonably
established, legal execution would
quickly have followed.
“Upon top of the statistics indicting
Georgia, in face of the grotesque
libels placarding this State in the North-
ern and foreign press, this exhibition of
extra-legal vengeance can offer nothing
of excuse or palliation. Even the crime
that supplied the provocation was of
such nature that testimony epneerning
it could have been presented in open
court without embarrassment or censor-
ship.
“Nightmare chapters like the Harris
county affair are as so many blots upon
the fair name of Georgia. Until they
are met by stern rebuke from the con-
trolling sentiment of the State, we shall
never rise to that development and that
world esteem to which our resources
and the innate respect for law of the
majority of Georgians entitle us.
“The hands of defense are tied when
the wantonness of the deed is itself
the accuser.”
The Savannah-News adds: “For shame,
Georgians! This is not the way to treat
people who are under our protection.
Among the victims were two women,
and we cannot be silent in the face of
such a tragedy. We cannot escape from
the belief that the prompt and vigorous
prosecution of all the Harris county
murderers would be an incalculable bene-
fit throughout the South.”
The Talladega (Ala.) Reporter calls
the lynching at Bessemer: “A disgrace to
the State, and another evidence that
human life is too cheap, and that people
must be taught that the penalty of mur-
der is death. The State and country
must arise in their might and put down
such crimes, if it takes hanging to do it.”
The Wilmington (Del.) News declares
that: “It is no worse for a Negro to
force his attentions upon a white girl
than it is for a white man to force his
attentions upon a Negro girl. There
are good Negro girls as well as good
white girls. Every girl, no matter what
may be her color or social standing, is
the proper ward of all good men. There
was no warrant whatever for a Negro
to shoot and kill the ‘very popular’
OPINION
193
farmer. That offence was murder. There
was no warrant for lynching the three
Negro men and the Negro girl. That
crime was murder, emphasized at this
time in view of the allegation that at
least three of the party were innocent."
Northern papers are represented by
the Philadelphia Public Ledger, which
says concerning Coatesville: "Despite
the utmost endeavors of the authori-
ties, the previous trials have been
without effect, and the present step is
an earnest effort by the prosecution to
avail itself of the last chance to do jus-
tice. It is to be hoped that the Supreme
Court will grant the petition and that
the cases will be pushed with prompti-
tude and vigor. It is quite futile for
the white population of the North to
preach doctrines founded on morality
and the necessity for conserving law
and order to Negroes just ‘up from
slavery’ when at the same time the
very heart of civilization displays a
savagery that would disgrace Dahomey.
* * * * *
“It is all very well for Americans to
express horror at Russian brutality and
barbarity, to-evince amazement and dis-
gust with Santo Dominican or Haitien
cruelty and bloodthirstiness, or to pre-
tend that America has reached a plane
so high that it may arrogate to ^itself a
proud eminence in civilization; but that
is all vain glory as long as Americans
permit shocking acts of savagery, such
as the Coatesville burning and the Balti-
more lynching.”
A new suggestion comes from a cor-
respondent in the Weekly Witness:
“Since President Taft has shown such
a disposition to reform public evils, I
would suggest to him that he send a
message to Congress recommending that
a law be enacted that a sum of money,
ranging from $5,000 up to $15,000, be paid
to the heirs of each and every person who
has been lynched by a mob, the amount
to be regulated according to the guilti-
ness or innocence of the person lynched;
this money to be paid at once by the
Federal government, which shall collect
it from the State in which the crime
was perpetrated. The State is then to
collect the sum from the local munici-
pality or from each and every individual
member of the guilty mob."
The New York Sun comments charac-
teristically on the “Referendum in
Western Georgia": “According to the
Sun’s despatches from the scene of this
notable referendum, at least two and
probably three of the persons so neatly
suspended and leaded were innocent;
there is ‘no convincing evidence’ against
the fourth.
“Aside from cold considerations of evi-
dence, how much more piquant and en-
joyable participation in such a referen-
dum must be than in a stupid case, where
the criminal is caught in the act and
no demand is made upon the imagina-
tion of the referees. How can the
referees be induced to take part in the
hemp referendum if it is not made
attractive?"
Some Southern papers, however, draw
other lessons. The Chattanooga Times,
for instance: “The attention of col-
ored leaders and educators is called
to the story from Cordele, Ga.,
reciting the fiendish act of one of
their race toward an unprotected
white lady. We know what the white
people are going to do about it if
they catch the offender, but what are
the Negro leaders and teachers going to
do about it? It is about time they were
giving this question profound considera-
tion. The whites have obviously made
up their minds as to what they will do
in all such cases.”
The Southwestern Christian Advocate,
a colored paper, writes: "If the Southern
white youth is not lawless, it will not
be because they have not had sufficient
encouragement to be. There are open
examples on every hand that make for
disrespect of law and order and the
demoralization of the youth of the South.
“Recently we were on a train which
was headed for the city of New Orleans.
We boarded it about 2 a. m. In the
car allotted to the colored people was
a young white lad, not more than ten
or twelve years of age. It was an open
violation of the law, to start with, for
him to be in this part of the train. But
what difference did it make? Law was
not made for him; and he was learning
the lesson. This lad had a cap pistol and
was bursting caps every now and then,
saying very audibly: T got him, I got
him, I shot a Nigger in the head.' He
would then load up his toy gun and fire
away again at some supposed black man,
who had not wronged him in the least,
and repeat again: ‘I got him. I got him,
I shot a Nigger in the head.’ It turned
out to be that this lad was the son of
the conductor. As soon as he had a
chance, the conductor, who was the cus-
todian of the law. came into the colored
compartment, took a seat and deliberately
began to smoke a cigar. In the coach
there were colored women, neatly attired,
calm in their demeanor, evidently women
who had come out of good homes. What
did this conductor care? Was he not
of a superior race, superior to law, supe-
rior to decent treatment of a humble
folk?"
A Southern white woman writes in a
Southern Georgia paper, the Advocate:
“Deeper than physical fear must the blow
be struck. Look at the hordes of mulatto
children swarming in the cities, the towns
and even the country, and say how far
is the white man responsible for condi-
tions. If he stoops to the black man’s
194
THE CRISIS
woman, what then when the black man
dares to lift lustful eyes to the white
man’s woman? Can the Anglo-Saxon
exterminate the children of his own
blood, half-breed though they be?
“ ‘Let him who is without a blemish
cast the first stone.’ ”
Here is a. new note in a Negro paper,
which perhaps answers the Southern
lad}': “It seems that a few weeks ago
several white apple peddlers visited
Boley, Okla., and remained over night.
One of the white men made him-
self very friendly and familiar after night-
fall with several of Boley’s Negro citi-
zens, and finally suggested that a colored
girl be brought to entertain him. He was
promptly knocked down by the Negro
young men and thoroughly thrashed. He
ran from Boley and took refuge at Oke-
mah, a white town nearby. He got sym-
pathy by telling the officers he had been
beaten and robbed by Negroes at Boley.
The white officers went to arrest the
Boleyitcs and their treatment was magni-
fied by the Okemah Ledger, a white
journal, into a race riot.”
The colored paper, the Boley Progress,
says: “Any white gentleman who comes
to Boley will be given courteous treat-
ment, whether he comes on business or
sightseeing.
“The citizens of Boley realize that the
white people of the country have helped
them and are yet helping them, and we
are not ingrates, neither are we all crimi-
nals, but we are not fools.
"The low-down, insignificant night-rid-
ing jackasses, who seem to be a cross
between a hyena and a coyote, and who
would lynch a Negro man in the daytime
and would hunt for Negro women at
night, might hs well understand that
Boley doesn't give a corrugated whoop
in hell for their presence, and this atmos-
phere won’t produce the woman they are
looking for.”
*<! The following communication may be
a joke, but it is a grim one:
“Whereas, the United States of
America is the only country in which
human beings are burned at the stake;
“And, whereas, the President of the
United States has thus far declined to
use, in any way,, the influence and
power of his great office to suppress
this horrible practice of primitive
barbarism and savagery:
“Be it, therefore, resolved, that the
Cosmopolitan Society of America peti-
tion, and it hereby does petition, His
Imperial Majesty, the Czar of Russia,
the organizer of the Hague Peace Con-
ference, to use his good offices with
the government at Washington, to urge
upon the President and the Congress
the human necessity of discouraging
and suppressing, if need be, by federal
legislation, the burning of men, women
and children at the. stake.
“And be it further resolved, that this
resolution be forwarded to the Russian
Ambassador at Washington, and that a
copy thereof be furnished the Associated
Press.” .
WHEN THIEVES FALL OUT.
Some interesting side lights on
democracy in the South have come to
hand. The New Orleans Picayune pub-
lishes this broadside to reassure its
supporters in a factional fight:
WHITE Voters Will Be
Guaranteed Full Rights
in the Primaries
Law Intended to Give FRANCHISE
to EVERY WHITE MAN
in the State
THE GOVERNOR'S ANNOUNCEMENT
“New Orleans, La., Jan. 20, 1912.
“As there is a conflict between the
attorney-general of the State and the
district attorney of the Parish of
Orleans as to the law on the question
of the right of voters to call for assist-
ance in fixing their ballot, I desire to
announce that, as governor of the State,
I concur in the opinion of the attorney-
general.
“I know that the purpose of the reg-
istration sections of the constitution is
to give the right of franchise to all
white men in the State.
“I know that the intention of the
primary election law is to allow any
white man to call for assistance if he
desires same.
“The general election law provides an
•emblem for the voter; the primary law
provides none; the general election law
provides that only those suffering from
physical disability can ask for assist-
ance; the primary election law spe-
cially omitted the words ‘Physical Dis-
ability,’ and permits any voter, whether
registered under the educational quali-
fication or otherwise, to call for assist-
ance, if he states that he is unable to
fix his ballot. The voter is the sole
judge of his ability to fix his ballot.”
The Augusta Chronicle, in a similar
factional fight, makes this unbelievable
accusation against white voters:
“That hundreds, if not thousands, of
dollars are being put up, by somebody,
to pay the taxes of a certain element of
voters in this community, for the pur-
pose of voting them against commission
government, is being daily demon-
strated.
OPINION
195
“It is being done so openly that any
citizen may drop in at the court house
and witness it for himself at any hour
of the day. The ‘heelers’ are there with
the money, and the taxes are being
paid openly—shamelessly.
“Now, the question naturally arises,
who is so interested in the defeat of
commission government as to put up all
this money—and why?”
The Times-Despatch of Richmond,
Va., completes this picture by showing
the beneficent effect of disfranchisement
on colored people:
“That the city council has not dealt
fairly with the Negro since his elimina-
tion from politics was tacitly admitted
by a special council committee last
night, when it began a general discus-
sion of the housing problems of the
Negro race, in their bearing, not only
on health and morality, but their effect
on the city generally.
“The special committee was appointed
as a result -of the passage last year of
the segregation ordinance—an effort on
the part of the council to prevent
Negroes from encroaching on Clay
Street.
“Twenty or more of the representa-
tive leaders of the Negro race appeared
before the committee last night show-
ing, that while annexations have been
made in all directions, and large sections
improved for the homes of white people,
there has been no addition to the Negro
quarter of the city in a generation;
that rows of houses have been standing
in the city limits for forty years without
water or sewerage: that there is neither
curbing, paving nor street cleaning
through the poorer sections: that con-
taminated wells are used by hundreds
of families who are unable to secure city
water, both because of the unwillingness
of the city to extend its mains and be-
cause of the conduct of property owners
and agents, who. even where such mains
are provided, will not supply plumbing
for their properties until compelled to
do so by the Board of Health.”
The Houston (Tex.) Post adds an
illuminating word to this symposium, in
a reference to President "Taft’s recent
remark: “In Texas we used to have
liberal election laws, and the elections
were participated in by most of the
potential voters. It is not the case now.
The poll-tax qualification, which was
adopted principally to suppress the
Negro vote, has had the effect of barring
two white men to every Negro delin-
quent. There are men in Texas at the
present time seeking a further suppres-
sion of the voters. As the poll-tax
qualification bars most of the Negroes,
these additional ‘safeguards’ are intended
to take the ballot away ^from white
men.”
HECKLING THE HECKLERS.
The president of the National Ameri-
can Woman SuffrageAssociation is timid
on the Negro problem and thinks
Negroes oppose woman's suffrage. Celia
Parker Woolsey answers her in the
Public: “We are told that ‘all Negroes
are opposed to woman suffrage,’ an
astonishing statement, which will not
bear examination. I have worked with
and among colored people for many
years. In the institution with which I
am connected, the Frederick Douglass
Center, the subject of woman suffrage
is a familiar and welcome theme. Suf-
frage meetings have been held in our
assembly room, where the subject was
discussed by white and black. I have
yet to hear a serious argument on the
negative side from a colored speaker.
"The feeling of the most thoughtful
Negroes on this subject is one that does
equal credit to heart and understand-
ing. ‘I know what disfranchisement
means,’ said one of these in my hearing.
‘I have suffered from it, my race sur-
fers from it still. I should be ashamed
to impose such a wrong on any other
class.’ Compare this to the rallying
cry, ‘Do not touch the Negro problem!’
"It may be well in this connection to
tell the story of one of Miss Anthony’s
very early visits to Chicago, her first, I
• believe. She had come in the hope of
securing a chance to speak her gospel
word. Church after church was solicited
from the - white clergy and invariably
refused. It so happened that the friend
with whom Miss Anthony was stopping
lived near the color district and was on
friendly terms with her dusky-skinned
neighbors. She called on the pastor
of Quinn Chapel, the oldest and largest
colored church in the city, whose use
was promptly granted. Thus, it was
from a colored pulpit, and in the main to
a colored audience, that our Susan ad-
dressed her first argument in the city
of the lakes.
“Woman suffrage has no more loyal
friend than Frederick Douglass. Doubt-
less he injured himself in many more
cautious minds by thus openly allying
himself with a cause which was in those
days far more unpopular than the black
man’s. Did anyone say to him, ‘Let
the woman question alone?’ One can
easily imagine the reply he would have
made, he who said: ‘I know no race
problem: there is a human problem.’
His last public act was to attend a meet-
ing of the National Association, where
Miss Anthony spoke words of gratitude
and praise to him, pinning a flower in
his buttonhole. He went to his home,
and an hour later was dead.”
196
THE CRISIS
This reminds us of a little correspond-
ence of our own, which we subjoin:
‘‘Chairman, Resolutions Committee,
“National American Woman Suffrage
Association,
“Louisville, Kentucky.
“Will you submit the following reso-
lution to the convention for considera-
tion:
“Resolved, that the women who are
trying to lift themselves out of the class
of the disfranchised, the class of the
insane and criminal, express their sym-
pathy with the black men and women
who are fighting the same battle and
recognize that it is as unjust and as
undemocratic to disfranchise human
beings on the ground of color as on
the ground of sex.
“(Signed) Martha Gruening.”
“My dear Dr. Du Bois:
“I am requested to convey to you a
message that in the opinion of the
majority of the resolutions committee at
the recent convention of our association
in Louisville, it was not deemed advis-
able to include the resolution presented
by your association among those to be
presented to the convention.
“Yours very truly,
“(Signed) Mary Ware Dennett,
“Corresponding Secretary."
A prominent suffragist adds:
“I cannot let the occasion go by with-
out at least giving myself the satisfac-
tion of saying how very much I regret
the action of the resolutions committee
and that I am especially sorry that the
matter did not come up at all so that
any one outside the resolutions com-
mittee could even express an opinion on
the subject while the convention was in
session. I earnestly hope that a. similar
resolution will be presented at next
year’s convention, and that those of us
who care about the subject can have
the privilege of doing our best to put
it through.”
“A STRANGER AND YE TOOK ME
NOT IN.”
The Literary Digest gives much space
in its columns to a quotation from “A
Black Man’s Appeal to His White
Brothers,” by Dr. R. S. Lovingood,
president of Samuel Houston College,
a* Austin, Tex. He writes:
“1 was in a Northern city recently. I
was a stranger. I was hungry. There
was food, food on every hand. I had
money, arrd finally I was compelled to
feast on a box of crackers and a piece
of cheese. I did not ask to eat with
the white people, but I did ask to eat.
“I was traveling. I got off at a sta-
tion almost starved. I begged the keeper
of a restaurant to sell me a lunch in a
paper and hand it out of the window.
He refused, and I was compelled to
ride a hundred miles farther before I
could get a sandwich.
“I was in a white church on official
business. It was a cold, blowing day,
raining, sleeting, freezing. Warm lunch
was served in the basement to my white
brothers. J could not sit in the corner
of that church and eat a sandwich. I
had to go nearly two miles in the howl-
ing winds and sleet to get a lunch.
“I have seen in the South white and
black workingmen elbowing each other,
eating their lunches at noon and smok-
ing the pipe of peace. Worldly men give
me a welcome in their stores. The Gov-
ernment post office serves me without
discrimination. But not so in that
church run in the name of Jesus.
“I could not1 help but feel that Jesus,
too, like me, an unwelcome visitor, was
shivering in the cold, and could not find
a place in that inn, and was saying:
‘I was an hungered and ye gave me no
meat. I was thirsty and you gave me
no drink.’ For Jesus was not an Anglo-
Saxon.
“I went to a station to purchase my
ticket. I was there thirty minutes before
the ticket office was opened. When the
ticket office opened I at once appeared
at the window. While the agent served
the white people at the other side I
remained there beating the window until
the train pulled out. I was compelled to
jump on the train without my ticket and
wire back to have my trunk expressed
to me. Considering the temper of the
people, the separatc-coach law may be
the wisest plan for the conditions in the
South, but the statement of ‘equal ac-
commodation's’ is all bosh and twaddle.
I pay the same money, but I cannot
have a chair car, or lavatory, and rarely
a through car. I must crawl out all
through the night in all kinds of weather
and catche another dirty ‘Jim Crow’
coach. This is not a request to ride with
white people. It is a request for justice,
for ‘equal accommodations’ for the
same money. I made an attempt to
purchase some cheap land in a frontier
section. The agent told me that the
settlers, most of whom were Northern-
ers, would not tolerate a Negro in
that section. So I could not purchase it.
I protest.
“I rode through a small town in
Southern Illinois. When the train
stopped I went to the car steps to take
a view of the country. This is what
greeted me: ‘Look here, darkey, don’t
get off at this station.’ I put my head
out of the window at a certain small
village in Texas, whose reputation was
well known to me. This greeted me:
‘Take your head back, nigger, or we
will knock it off.’ ”
DIVINE RIGHT.
WE would like to know what
rights the white people of
this land are going to be
able to retain? Step by step their
dearest and most cherished preroga-
tives are being invaded, and The
Crisis wants to say right here and
now that it does not countenance
oppression of the downtrodden whites
by arrogant black folk. A few years
ago the right to kick a darky' off the
sidewalk was unquestioned in the most
devout circles, and yet to-day they
actually complain at being called by
their front names.
Even-body knows that for three
hundred years the most jealously
guarded right of white men in this
land and others has been the right
to seduce black women without legal,
social or moral penalty. Many white
mothers and daughters of the best
families have helped to maintain this
ancient and honored custom by load-
ing the victims of their fathers' and
husbands’ lust with every epithet of
insult and degradation. Thus has the
sweet cleanness of their own race
virtue shone holier and higher.
Yet what do we see to-day? The
black husbands and brothers are
beginning to revolt. In three sepa-
rate cases, in three consecutive
months and in three localities of the
southern South have these blind and
ignorant fellows actually killed white
men who were demanding these
ancient rights, and have compelled
the chivalry of the land to rise and
lynch the black defenders of defence-
less virtue; also two strangely illogi-
cal black women have been simultane-
ously killed and a dark and whimper-
ing little girl burned to a quivering
crisp.
What does all this mean ? Does
it portend an unthinkable time when
the white man can only get his rights
by lynching impudent black husbands
and squeamish sweethearts? If so,
then, by the Great Jehovah, we can
depend on the best friends of the
Negro to vindicate the ancient liber-
ties of this land! Anglo-Saxon free-
dom seems safe at least in the hands
of most leaders of Southern society,
not to mention the blue blood of
Pennsylvania.
Meantime, dear colored brethren,
we confess to the error of our ways.
We have steadfastly opposed lynching
on all occasions, but the South is con-
verting us. We acknowledge our
fault. Hereafter we humbly pray that
every man, black or white, who is
anxious to defend women, will be
willing to be lynched for his faith.
Let black men especially kill lecher-
ous white invaders of their homes and
then take their lynching gladly like
men.
It’s worth it!
OPTIMIST AND PESSIMIST.
FEW people from without under-
stand the inner currents of the
darker world. Should they be
told our “optimists” are largely pes-
simists, while our “pessimists” are
optimists, many would be mystified.
Yet this is true. There is a large class
of professional colored optimists.
They are not optimists because they
believe
“----- God’s in His heaven.
All’s right with the world.”
On the contrary, believing that the
battle for Negro manhood in the
United States is practically lost, they
are whispering “Sauve qui pent” and
“Spoil the Egyptians,” and other
198
THE CRISIS
1
MARCH. 1912
199
/. Atlanta University Students in
Twelfth Night
200
THE CRISIS
phrases indicative of the fact that, not
being able to win the greater battle,
they are going to get what they can
out of the defeat. Among the accessi-
ble remains are charity and offices.
To get charity and offices the influence
of white folks is necessary. This in-
fluence can best be gained by a cheer-
ful, sunny attitude. It is, therefore,
common among us to see a man who
has not the slightest faith in the white
race, or in the eventual triumph of
justice among men, turn from his
frank counsels of despair made to us
to “Good-morning, sir! Yes, sir; all
is well! If we folks do our duty,
sir, we know you’ll do yours, sir!
Thank you, sir,” and he pockets his
substantial check, remarking, “Opti-
mism pays!”
On the other hand, there is the
colored pessimist. He is in reality
no pessimist at all. He is an opti-
mist. He believes in men, white and
black. He believes in justice. He
says firmly: “The world that has con-
quered slavery and despotism can
conquer war and race prejudice.” He
insists that the key to this, victory is
the Truth. He, therefore, insists on
the Truth, that the Truth may make
us free. He finds himself greeted byr
frowns and shrugs. His hearers are
made uncomfortable by lynching sta-
tistics and figures; they shrink at the
burden black folk bear; they wince
at accusations of prejudice and in-
justice, and when at last he demands
not alms but a friend, they shriek,
“Social equality,” and scamper away,
warning the world against this anar-
chistic pessimist. But he’s no pessi-
mist. He is so optimistic that he even
believes in these runaways and runs
after them with the Truth.
LEE.
IN a recent review of Mr. Thomas
Nelson Page’s life of Robert E.
Lee in the New York Times we
find the following sentence: “Of all
the figures in history, it is he (Lee)
who most nearly approaches Washing-
ton ; in fact, there is little or nothing
to choose between them except the fact
that Lee failed.”
This statement is worth noting be-
cause it expresses a sentiment not
uncommon to-day. Plere are two gen-
erals, both well born, scrupulously hon-
orable, brave and efficient. The only
difference between them is that one
was victorious, while the other was
obliged in the end to surrender. One
won, the other lost; that is all.
In Memorial Hall, at Harvard
University, are the names of the col-
lege graduates who fell in battle for
the cause of the Union. Again and
again has come the demand that wjth
these names there be placed the
names of the graduates who fell
defending' the Confederacy. Both
were brave youths, the argument goes,
both fought unselfishly. Why not
give honor to both, since they only
differed in that one lost and the other
won in battle?
Now, what is the significance of
this doctrine which many Americans
believe should be preached in litera-
ture and history and on the walls of
a noble building erected in memory
of the heroic dead? This, that if the
youths who go forth into the world,
fight honorably; if they bear defeat
bravely, it makes no difference what
side they take in the battle. They
may fight for the right of the indi-
vidual to control the natural resources
of the earth, to destroy the forests,
to impoverish the land, or they may
fight for the conservation of such
resources; no matter, so that they
fight well. Like Washington, their
choice may be to lead the army of
republicanism, or like Lee, they may
choose to .lead the aristocracy to
battle for the right of one man to
hold another as his chattel; the wis-
dom of their choice is of no import-
ance ; “there is little or nothing to
choose between the two;” both are
singularly alike, both are worthy of
equal praise.
At this time of year, when we cele-
brate the birthdays of our two most
famous Americans, let us denounce
this philosophy in no uncertain terms.
The choice that a man makes is his
life. The present crisis faces every
youthful spirit, and life for him is a
EDITORIAL
201
failure or a success as he chooses
“the good or evil side;” the side of
spiritual, human progress, or the side
of material, brutal enslavement. No
sentiment can keep alive for long the
names of those, however honorable,
who chose to fight with the forces of
darkness. If they live, they live in
opprobrium. Washington lives and
Lincoln lives because each, at the
crisis of his life, chose the side of
progress and civilization. Lincoln
saw the “irrepressible conflict” and
stood for freedom; otherwise he
would be as great a nonentity as his
rival, Stephen A. Douglas. Washing-
ton lives because he believed that
taxation without representation was
tyranny; otherwise he would have
been forgotten like—but who remem-
bers the name of one of the gentle-
men who drew their swords for King
George ?
HOMES.
THE injustice toward colored
people who want decent living
conditions is almost unbeliev-
able unless one comes face to face
with the facts. The New York Times,
which Spares few opportunities to treat
black folk unjustly, says in an edi-
torial :
“It is becoming necessary in the up-
per resident part of New York for
the property owners in neighborhoods
to enter into agreements to prohibit
the occupancy of their dwellings by
Negroes. This departure is not due
to race prejudice or hatred for the
Negro but for the protection of the
neighborhood values against designing
or ugly white men.”
Not a word for the colored family
seeking a decent home; but if that
family live in the slums and purlieus
and let the surroundings teach their
children crime and prostitution, then
the holy horror of the Times and its
ilk! If black folk rush for decent
homes at exorbitant rents is there
sense or decency in trying to stop this
by frantic appeals to race prejudice?
In other and perfectly parallel cases
the property owner suffers the inevi-
table without thought of appeal to
human hatred. If property in Fifth
Avenue becomes more valuable for
business than for dwellings then the
dwellings must go. If people indulge
in senseless prejudice against their
A NEGRO HOME IN TEXAS
202
THE jCRISIS
fellows and find real-estate men coin-
ing this prejudice into gold, they have
no right to blame the unhappy victims
of their barbarism, but they must
blame that barbarism misnamed race
pride.
A SOUTHERN NORTHERNER.
My Dear Sir:
I HAVE read carefully the clipping
that you have sent me dealing with
the assault upon a white woman
by a Xegro. It is needless to say that
every normal human being who reads
of such an atrocious crime must cry
out in horror and condemn the crime
in unmeasured terms. The black
criminal who commits a crime of this
kind is doubly a criminal in that he
not only injures his victims but his
entire race. Unlike a white man, a
Xegro’s sins are ascribed to his race,
and are said to be characteristic of
his race. We have frequent cases of
rape by white men to deal with in
New York City and in our Xorthern
rural communities, but somehow or
other we seldom hear them spoken of
as white fiends, nor has it ever been
found necessary to resort to lynching
as a cure for these fiends. With all
respect for your point of view as a
Northern man resident in the South',
and your belief that unless “the fear
of lynching is held before these black
fiends” such crimes “would be re-
peated constantly in the South,” we
cannot believe that mob murder is a
remedy for anything or even a deter-
rent. Lately they have even been lynch-
ing colored women in the South—in
Georgia, in Oklahoma, in Tennessee—
yet bestial crimes such as you describe
and such as has recently happened at
Cordele. Ga., take place. Does lynching
ever act as a deterrent against crime,
whether the criminal be black or
white, or does it help criminals to con-
trol their animal passions? A few
years ago I spent some time in a
county in Alabama which had had a
record for lynching, beginning with a
burning. The white sheriff himself
told me how, afterwards, the lynch-
ings got so frequent on any excuse
that he found it necessary to send to
the chain gang a number of white men
who were thus dealing out “justice”
to the Xegro. The Spanish Inquisi-
tion went our American lynchings one
better. They inflicted more tortures
than even our American mobs; hut
was it successful in stopping what the
Church of Rome deems heresy? If
you have studied the history of Eng-
land you will know that at the very
time the severest punishments were in
vogue there was more crime than at
any other period in its history.
The simple fact remains that lynch-
ing cures nothing, and does incalcu-
lable harm because it makes a mur-
derer of every man participating in the
mob and starts the blood lust agoing
in the heart of every person who par-
ticipates in the crime or watches it.
This may be a subconscious influence,
but it is there none the less, and I
would call your attention to the fact
that nowhere else in the world is this
procedure tolerated save in this so-
called Christian and civilized country,
although the crime of rape is known
in every country and in every age.
You speak of the Xegro as being
lazy, careless, indifferent, shiftless and
given to theft; now if this is the case,
after fifty years of management of the
blacks in the South by the white peo-
ple, would it not seem to be worth
while to ask, in a purely scientific
spirit, if the policy in vogue which
has produced these results ought not
to be changed for one which would
recognize the self-respect of the col-
ored people and grant them greater
social, industrial and political freedom
than they now enjoy? It is easy to
say that the Negro has failed in the
South since emancipation, but is it not
time to ask whether the white masters
of his destiny have not also failed?
We would not have you misunder-
stand our position. We have the
greatest sympathy for both whites and
blacks in the difficult and trying posi-
tion in which they find themselves.
Our realization of that has created our
association, which desires to help one
race quite as much as the other.
Very truly,
(Signed) Oswald Garrison Villard.
The fourth annual conference of the
National Association for the Advance-
ment of Colored People will be held in
Chicago, beginning April 28 and con-
tinuing three days. This was deter-
mined at a meeting held at Hull House
on January 15, at which time a com-
mittee on organization was formed, with
Mr. Robert McMurdy as chairman. At
a subsequent meeting held at Hull House
on January 27, the committee on organi-
zation adopted the following plan of
arrangement:
The conference shall be in charge of
a general committee, to which all other
committees shall report; to consist of
the chairmen of all other committees;
to have power to add to its member-
ship. Such committee shall co-operate
with the National Association.
The honorary chairman of the general
committee shall be Miss Jane Addams.
The active chairman of the general com-
mittee shall be selected by the com-
mittee from its own membership, or
otherwise. The secretary of the general
committee may be a paid officer.
Headquarters shall be provided in the
Loop.
There shall be a finance committee,
chairman not named: a press committee,
chairman, Mr. Charles T. Hallinan:
reception committee, chairman. Mrs. Ida
Wells Barnett: committee on halls and
speakers, chairman. Dr. Charles E.
Bentley: entertainment committee, chair-
man. Miss S. P. Breckenridge: advisory
committee, chairman. Mrs. Celia Parker
Woolley.
The secretary and treasurer shall be
Mr T. \V. Allinson.
With present information, Sunday.
April 2S. is recommended as the open-
ing day of the assembly, provided that
the ispeakers can be secured on the
basis of that date. Sunday evening is
recommended for the opening event, and
it is further recommended that, as far
as it can be brought about, all the pulpits
of Chicago on that day take up the
subject of lynching: also, to that end.
that a pamphlet on the subject be issued
by the association to be used by the
ministers in preparing their sermons.
The impetus to the Chicago confer-
ence was given by Mr. Oswald Garri-
son Villard. who spent January 11 in
that city. Mr. Villard was the guest
of honor at a luncheon given by Mr.
Julius Rosenwald and Miss Jane
Addams. and attended by many promi-
nent publicists and educators. The City
Club of Chicago entertained him at
dinner, and he was the principal speaker
at a meeting held in the interests of the
National Association in Handel Hall.
Commenting on Mr. Villard’s “sin-
cere and powerful addresses” at these
meetings, the Chicago Herald said in
part:
"To hear Mr. Villard was to sympa-
thize with .him and indorse his position
fully. The association stands primarily
for truth and knowledge, tor simple jus-
tice to the colored population, for de-
fense to the protection against lynching
and outrage. The association renders
legal aid to poor or threatened Negroes;
it investigates and gives the public the
real facts in cases of actual or supposed
Negro crime: it enforces the law or sees
that the authorities enforce it.
‘‘There is not a city of any size in the
country which dees not need a branch
of this association. The branches should
have their legal-aid features and should
oe liberally supported by men and
women who really believe in the prin-
ciples of the American Republic. Tt
cannot be doubted that such activities
and education as the association is car-
rying on will in the course of time
change the whole atmosphere in the
communities where the Negro cannot
obtain elementary justice or due process
of law.”
CJ At a public meeting in Boston,
on February S. addressed by Prof.
Spingarn of New \ork, Mr. Moorheld
Storey presiding, there was formed a
branch of the National Association, with
the following officers:
President. Mr. Francis J. Garrison:
secretary. Mr. Butler R. Wilson:
treasurer. Mr. George G. Garrison: mem-
bers of the executive committee. Miss
Maria L. Baldwin. Dr. Horace Bum-
stead. Mr. Joseph P. Loud. Mrs. Joseph
P.	Loud. Miss Adelene Moffat. Mr.
Clement G. Morgan.
The Boston branch adopted a consti-
tution. endorsed by the National Associa-
tion. which should stand as a model
204
THE CRISIS
for other branches and which may be
obtained by application at the New York
office.
Mr. William Pickens, professor of
Latin at Talladega College, and a mem-
ber of the advisory board of the
National Association for the Advance-
ment of Colored People, gave an admir-
able talk in New York at Bethel Church,
on Sunday afternoon, January 14.
q On Lincoln’s Birthday the New York
branch held a meeting at St. James’
Presbyterian Church. Among the
speakers were Judge Robert H. Terrell
of Washington, Dr. John Lovejoy Elliott
of the Ethical Culture School, New
York, and many prominent colored men
of New York. The subject discussed
was “The Problem of Race Prejudice
and How to Combat It.” Prof. Spingarn
presided.
q The N. A. A. C. P. and the New York
branch have now a flying squadron, a
band of young women who have organ-
ized to help the work in New York
and to help it quickly. The colored
churches and societies of Greater New
York are divided among them and can
be swiftly circularized. Three of the
members do circularizing in New Jer-
sey. The members of the flying squad-
ron usher at meetings, and they are now
making plans for a benefit performance
to be given in April. Each of the twenty
members of the squadron is a “captain”
and is gathering about her a group to
aid in the work. The executive head is
Miss Dora Cole, and the secretary Miss
Lurline Saunders.
q The last piece of association news is
one of the pleasantest and most encour-
aging The Crisis has ever had to recount.
For some time it has been apparent
that if the association was to • do far-
reaching constructive work, if it hoped
to attack the larger phases of segrega-
tion, lawlessness or disfranchisement, it
must have a fund at its disposal. Such
a fund should be called a fund for legal
redress and its money should be appro-
priated under the direction of the board
of directors and' the association’s attor-
ney. Mr. Julius Rosenwald, of Chicago,
started this fund on February 1
by a gift of $2,000. Shortly after-
ward, Mr. Samuel Fels, of Philadelphia,
augmented it- by a gift of $500. This
splendid beginning will make it possible
for the association during the coming
year to carry on a much greater mass of
important work than before, always pro-
viding that it increases steadily in
members.
Forty-bnc persons joined the associa-
tion in January, 1912, paying $161 in
memberships.
q The secretary of the association spoke
in Detroit on January 18 before what it
is hoped will soon be a new branch of
the N. A. A. C. P. Her audience con-
sisted of a group of twenty-five colored
men, who have formed themselves into
a vigilance committee and are combat-
ing with marked success the discrimina-
tion which has crept into their city.
Detroit has always stood for justice and
liberality to the Negro, but recently
the caste feeling that manifests itself
in annoying ways in the Northern cities
has attempted to get a foothold in
Detroit. The Detroit Negroes, how-
ever, have taken this at the beginning
and have stopped discrimination on
excursion boats, in parks, at moving-
picture shows, soda-water fountains and
restaurants. In this they have been
aided by some of the best white lawyers
in the city and by a strong civil-rights
law upon the. statute books. The wis-
dom displayed by the Detroit colored
men in attacking race prejudice at its
beginning cannot be too much com-
mended.
q Throughout the country colored men
and colored organizations have been
active in protesting against the appoint-
ment of Judge Hook to the Supreme
Court of the United States. The
National Association for the Advance-
ment of Colored People, through its
membership, sent nearly a hundred let-
ters of protest to the President, and
on February 6, by order of its board
of directors, dispatched the following
night telegram:
“To the President of the United States:
“The National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People re-
spectfully protests against the elevation
of Judge William C. Hook to the
Supreme Court bench.
“We base our protest on his concur-
rence, without .expressed opinion of his
own, in the case of McCabe vs. Atchi-
son, Topeka & Santa Fe Railroad, 186
Fed., 966; not alone because that deci-
sion gave the sanction of law to a dread-
ful injustice to colored citizens, but be-
cause it did not deal with the principles
involved in this decision with the con-
structive grasp which we have a right
to expect from a judge of first rank.
•“The opinion did not work out any
principle of constitutional law, but, on
the contrary, established a precedent not
only unjust and at variance with the law
of the land, but one lacking in the
principle of humanitjr. ’
In reply to this telegram, the follow-
ing letter was received at the office of
the association:
“To Mr. Oswald Garrison Villard.
“My Dear Sir:
“The telegram of February 6, signed
by you and other members of the
National Association for the Advance-
A FEDERAL REMEDY FOR LYNCHING
205
ment of Colored People, protesting
against the appointment of Judge Hook
to the United States Supreme Court, has
been received and promptly brought to
the attention of the President.
“Very truly yours,
“Charles D. Hilles,
“Secretary to the President.”
On February 8 the press announced
the withdrawal of Judge Hook's name,
owing to the opposition on the part of
the colored citizens of the United
States.
On January 23 the vigilance com-
mittee of the New York branch won an
important victory in the conviction of
Harry A. Levy, assistant treasurer of
the Lyric Theatre, for refusing on Octo-
ber 13, 1911, to permit a colored man,
Louis F. Baldwin, and his companion
to occupy orchestra seats.
The case was a criminal one and was
decided by three judges of the Court of
Special Sessions. Baldwin’s testimony
showed that he had purchased two
orchestra tickets and, then, on the night
of the performance, entered the theatre
accompanied by a colored woman and
was turned back by the usher to whom
he showed his seat stubs. This usher
directed him to the box office. At the
box office Baldwin found Levy, who told
him that it was not the custom of the
house to allow colored persons to sit in
the orchestra, but that he could give
him front-row balcony seats, or would
return his money. Baldwin refused both
offers and left the theatre.
The young woman who accompanied
Baldwin, gave corroborative testimony.
Levy and several of the employees of
the house, including the manager, denied
that there was any rule prohibiting
Negroes from sitting in any part of the
house. “Have you ever refused any per-
son admission to your theatre for the
reason of color?” the manager was
finally asked.
“No, sir,” was the answer.
At this point the prosecution called
Prof. Spingarn, but some legal question
was raised and he was barred as a wit-
ness in the case. The defendant having
been proved guilty, the prosecution again
asked that Prof. Spingarn be permitted
to make a statement. This was granted,
and Prof. Spingarn told how, several
weeks after Mr. Baldwin’s experience,
having a desire to test the truth of it,
he had gone personally to the Lyric
Theatre and asked for two orchestra
seats, mentioning to the man in the box
office that he desired to bring a colored
man with him and hoped that no objec-
tion would be made.
“ ‘I am sorry,’ the man in the box office
said to me,” Prof. Spingarn concluded,
“ ‘but I cannot give you orchestra seats
then. We do not permit Negroes to sit
in the orchestra.’ ”
The sentence imposed was a fine of
$50.
The success of the Baldwin case was
primarily due to the energy and per-
sistence of Mr. Gilchrist Stewart, chair-
man of the New York Vigilance Com-
mittee, who first called it to the atten-
tion of the District Attorney, and car-
ried on the work despite many delays
and disappointments. Credit is also due
to Mr. Charles H. Studin, whose legal
services, gratuitously given, were all the
more valuable because of his former ex-
perience in the District Attorney’s office.
District-Attorney Whitman took a per-
sonal interest in the case, which was
ably conducted by two of his assistants.
Mr. MacDougal in the Magistrate’s Court
and Mr. James Smith in the Court of
Special Sessions.
A Federal Remedy for Lynchi ng
By the Honorable Albert E. Pills bury, formerly Attorney-General
of the State of Massachusetts
[Reprinted by special permission from the Harvard Law Review, \ ol. X\ No. 9.]
Has the United States power to pro-
tect the lives of its citizens, or the lives
of resident aliens to whom it owes pro-
tection, against mob violence within the
States, if the States fail to protect them?
Probably a majority of public men and
constitutional lawyers, “under preposses-
sion of some abstract theory of the rela-
tions between the State and national
governments,” as Mr. Justice Bradley
once said in the Supreme Court, 1 will
incline to answer this question off-
hand in the negative.
An offhand answer is not enough.
The progress of mob law in many of
1 Ex parte Siebold, 100 U. S. 371, 3S3.
the States invites, if it does not compel,
a serious inquiry into the constitutional
question of federal power to put an end
to it. This is not a sectional question,
nor is it to be approached in a narrow
or sectional spirit. The fact that the
victims of lynching are usually of the
colored race does not limit the import-
ance or the object of the inquiry. It is
not a race question, but one which affects
the integrity of the government. Lynch
law is actual and concrete anarchy: the
one complete form in which anarchism
appears in our midst. The United States
cannot afford to tolerate it within the
national domain if the power of preven-
206
THE CRISIS
tion exists. It is idle to denounce
anarchism in the abstract, or to punish
by special laws the killing of Presidents
or other officers of government by anar-
chists, in a community where there is no
system of laws adequate to protect the
life of any and every person against mob
violence.
The demoralizing effect of lynching
upon the public moral sense is enough
to compel attention to the subject, if
there were no other reason for it. The
practice is steadily increasing, by
methods of progressive barbarity. When
Hose was burned at the stake in New-
man some ten years ago, a cry of
indignation went up from press and
people in all parts of the country.
Burning alive was comparatively a nov-
elty, even in Judge Lynch’s code of
punishments. Since that occurrence
many lynchings have been perpetrated
by burning, and they have excited hardly
a word of public comment. Such statis-
tics as have been collected, probably not
full nor entirely accurate, indicate that
there were more murders by mob vio-
lence within the States during the last
year than in any year before, and that
in but about one-tenth of these cases
was there even a charge of the peculiar
crime to which lynching is sometimes
considered especially appropriate.
As a legal or political question, the
character or degree of guilt on the part
of the victim of the mob cannot enter
into it. If the guiltier man is lynched
to-day, the less guilty may be to-mor-
row, and the innocent man the next
day. In fact, a substantial proportion
of the victims are innocent of any
offence. A mob cannot be trusted to
determine this question, and often makes
no attempt to determine it. It is less
revolting if the mob kills the per-
petrator of a heinous crime than if it
kills for a trivial offence or no offence
at all. But one case involves as much
danger to the political system as the
other. No civilized community can suf-
fer vengeance to be wreaked or penal-
ties to be visited upon any person by
lawless violence. The possible conse-
quences of tolerating such a practice do
not need even to be suggested.
It is not agreeable to rettect that
lynching, as the Chinese minister has
pointedly reminded us, is peculiarly an
American custom. It does not, and
could not, exist under any other govern-
ment in the world having any preten-
sions to be called civilized. Not in
Spain, Russia, or even Turkey, are men
and women burned at the stake by
mobs, with or without charges of crime.
The American States enjoy a complete
monopoly of this distinction. The
weight of public sentiment in every State
undoubtedly is against it. The better
element of the people in every State
5 57th Congress, 1st Session, Senate No. 1117,
would prevent it. But for one reason or
another the States do not prevent it,
and it has generally been supposed that
the federal government has no power
to interfere.
A bill some time ago was introduced in
each house of Congress, designed to
afford to citizens federal protection
against lynching, in default of protection
by the States. 2 In substance it pro-
vides, in section 1, that the putting to
death of a citizen of the United States
by a mob in default of protection of
such citizen by the State or its officers,
shall be deemed a denial to the citizen
by the State of the equal protection of
the laws, and a violation of the peace
of, and an offence against, the United
States; in section 2, that every person
participating in such mob shall be
deemed guilty of murder and subject to
prosecution therefor in the federal
courts; in section 3, that the county in
which a lynching occurs shall be subject
to a pecuniary forfeiture, to be recov-
ered by action prosecuted by and in the
name of the United States; in section 4.
that State peace officers who omit all
reasonable efforts to prevent a lynching,
and prosecuting officers who omit all
reasonable efforts to bring the offenders
to justice under the laws of the State,
shall be deemed guilty of an offence
against the United States and be liable
to prosecution and punishment therefor
in the federal courts; and in section 5,
that State officers having the custody of
citizens of the United States charged
with crime, who suffer them to be taken
from their custody by mobs for the
purpose of lynching, shall be deemed
guilty of an offence against the United
States and be liable to federal prosecu-
tion and punishment. Section 6 provides
for thq exclusion from juries, in such
cases, of all persons whose character,
conduct or opinions are such as to dis-
qualify them, in the judgment of the
court, for the impartial trial of the issue.
Inquiry into the constitutional grounds
for the exercise of such a power by
the United States may begin by taking
an analogous case. The United States,
by international law and by treaty obliga-
tions, owes to foreign governments a
duty of protecting their subjects resident
within the States. So highly is this duty
regarded by the law of nations that
breach of it may be casus belli. Within
fifteen years, to go back no farther,
the United States has several times been
called tQ account for the killing of
foreign subjects by mobs within the
States; although the practice of the State
Department has been, for prudential rea-
sons, to disclaim any direct responsibility
for these outrages.
Can it be doubted that the United
States, having this duty of protection,
and being answerable to the world for
House No. 4572.
A FEDERAL REMEDY FOR LYNCHING
207
its performance, has power to perform
it? There can be but one answer to this
question.3 Whatever preconceived no-
tions may have been, whatever the prac-
tice of the government may be, the
powers of the United States are neces-
sarily co-extensive with its lawful obliga-
tions. Where there is a recognized duty,
there must be governmental power ade-
quate to its discharge. Any other rule
would make the government a name of
reproach.
The early theory that the United
States has no police power, so-called, or
power to protect life or punish crimes
of violence within the States, is already
superseded by judicial decision. It is
now determined by the highest authority
that the United States has such power,
when a federal right or duty is invaded
or involved. This principle is neither
new nor startling, though modern appli-
cations of it have attracted attention.
For example, it is now held that the
United States, by the hand of its mar-
shal, may lawfully kill one who assaults
a federal judge traveling through a
State in the course of his duty, and that
the State cannot hold the marshal to
account for such killing;4 and that the
United States may punish, as for murder,
one who kills a prisoner in the custody
of a federal officer within a State.5 The
principle is that the persons so assailed
are within the peace of the United States;
that the United States owes them the
duty of protection; and that the power
of protection follows upon the duty.
The equality clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment forbids the States to deny
to any person within their jurisdiction
the equal protection of the laws. This
clause is judicially held to confer immu-
nity from any discrimination, as a federal
right. The protection which the State
extends to one person must be extended
to all. It does not forbid discrimina-
tion merely in the making of laws,
but in the equal protection which
the laws are designed to afford.
Forbidding the State to deny equal pro-
tection is equivalent to requiring the
State to provide it. Equal protection is
withheld if a State fails to provide it,
and the guaranteed immunity is infringed.
The constitutional requirement may be
violated by acts of omission, no less
than by acts of commission. The omis-
sion of the proper officers of the State
to furnish equal protection, in any case,
is the omission of the State itself, since
the State can act only by its officers.6
It would seem to follow that when a
citizen or other person is put to death
by a lawless mob, in default of the pro-
tection which the State is bound to pro-
vide for all alike, there is a denial of
equal protection by the State, in tne sense
of the equality clause, which Congress
may prevent or punish by legislation
applying to any individuals who partici-
pate in or contribute to it, directly or
indirectly.
The citizenship clause of the Four-
teenth Amendment, by express declara-
tion, creates and confers citizenship of
the United States, as a federal right,
upon all who are born or naturalized
within and are subject to its jurisdic-
tion. Formerly, citizenship of the United
States within the States was understood
to follow only from State citizenship.
The Fourteenth Amendment directly re-
versed the conditions. Citizenship of the
United States is now the primary right
and status, proceeding directly' from the
federal government; .while State citizen-
ship is secondary and derivative from it.
This effected a change in the relations
between the United States and its citi-
zens which has received little direct judi-
cial consideration. The power to protect
the lives of its citizens or subjects is an
inherent power of every government. It
was never doubted that the United States
has this power, as a power necessarily
implied, and may' exercise it throughout
the world outside the States. It is now
judicially established, as above noted,
that it may exercise such power within
the States, for the vindication of federal
rights or duties. The duty of a govern-
ment to protect the lives of its citizens is
correlative with the power. The citizen
is entitled, as of right, to claim such
protection. If the United States cannot
exercise this power to its full exent
within the States, it can be for no other
reason than that it is reserved to the
States, or to the people. In creating
citizenship of the United States by' the
Fourteenth Amendment, there is no ex-
press reservation of this power. The
established rule of constitutional con-
struction now is that the United States
has the powers commonly incidental to
sovereignty except the powers ex-
pressly’ denied or reserved to the States
or people, and all implied powers prop-
erly incidental to the powers granted.
The Fourteenth Amendment expressly*
authorizes Congress to enforce its pro-
visions by appropriate legislation. Such
legislation cannot, indeed, extend to
establishing a complete code of laws.
It must be limited to correction of the
particular mischief resulting from vio-
lation of the amendment. Legislation
* See Baldwin
In rc Neagle,
Franks. 120 U.
135 U. S. 1
S. 67S, 6S3.
8 Logan v. United States. 144 U. S. -63.
0 Tenn. 7-. Davis, 100 U. S 257. 266: Strauder r.
, 100 U. S. 313. 318; Ex forte Va.. 100 L. S. 339,
W. Va., 100
Rives, 100 U. S. 313. 318; Ex forte Va.. 100 U. 5>.	345: U. S. r
Civil Rights Cases. 109 U. S.. 3, 13. 23. Ex forte \ arbrouRh. 110 L S.
Hopkins. 118 U. S. 356. 373; Baldwin v. Franks. 120 U. b. 683 and
127 U. S. 731: Carter v. Texas, 177 U. S. 442, 447.
U. S. 303. 306, 310; Va. t\
Harris. 106 U. S. 629. 639:
651. 660. et scq.; Vick Wo r.
(Harlan. J.) 700; In rc Cov.
208
THE CRISIS
to protect citizens in their lives against
mob violence, in default of such protec-
tion by the States, apparently goes no
farther than to correct the mischief re-
sulting from the default.
It is now held that there is, in legal
contemplation, a peace of the United
States, existing within and throughout
the States. It seems to be judicially
regarded as comprehending at least the
existence, exercise and undisturbed en-
joyment of the rights derived from or
under the United States.7 If this can
be taken as established, it would seem
to follow that citizens of the United
States, whatever may be said of other
persons, are entitled to live in its peace,
and to have it preserved for the protec-
tion of their-lives. If the United States
can legislate directly for the preserva-
tion of its peace within the States, the
pending bill appears to be within its
powers. If the power and duty to pre-
HON. ALBERT E. PILESBtXRY
serve the peace of the United States
within the States belong solely to the
States, which it may not be wholly safe
to concede, and which seems to be in-
consistent with principles already estab-
lished, the failure of the States to pre-
serve it is a breach of duty toward the
United States. In this view it may be
contended that the United States has
power to deal with such a breach as
an offence against itself, on the part of
all individuals who contribute to it,
directly or indirectly.
The United States has, as all govern-
ments have, a political and legal inter 1
est in the lives of its citizens. If it has
not full power to protect them in their
lives, within the States as it has else-
where, it can be, as already observed,
only because that duty rests solely upon
the States. If so, it is a duty owed to
the United States, as well as to indi-
vidual citizens. It would seem that
open and notorious neglect or omission
of this duty on the part of a State, by
suffering lawless mobs to murder citi-
zens for want of legal protection, may
be declared an offence against the United
States, and if so, that the United States
may punish all persons who contribute
to it.	.
It may be said that if the United
States has power to protect the lives
of its citizens within the States, it must
have power to protect their other per-
sonal and property rights, and so to
supersede State laws by a system of
federal legislation, which is impossible.
This does not follow. There is no
doubt that so far as the express pro-
visions -of the Fourteenth Amendment
extend, federal legislation for its en-
forcement may extend, whatever the
consequences. For example, it a State
should omit to enact any legislation for
the protection of a certain class of citi-
zens against crimes of violence, forbid-
ding and punishing such crimes only
when committed against the other class
or classes, it can hardly be doubted that
Congress, under the enforcement clause,
may supply the omission by direct leg-
islation, or may perhaps annul the whole
system of discriminating, laws, leaving
the State to provide others which will
conform to the requirement of equality.
The consequences of the failure of a
State to enforce laws made for protec-
tion against violence are no less dis-
astrous to the unprotected class than
the failure of the State to make any
such laws'. It is difficult to perceive why
the power and the duty of Congress to
iriterfere, under the enforcement clause,
are not as clear in the one case as in
the other.
Apart from the Fourteenth Amend-
ment, it may well be that the United
States owes its citizens protection in
their lives while not owing them a com-
plete system of laws for the protection
of all personal and property rights, and
that its power is coextensive with its
duty, but extends no farther.
Without attempting an exhaustive in-
quiry into this delicate and difficult sub-
ject, it can safely be assumed that pre-
conceived opinions are not conclusive of
the question. In view of express con-
stitutional provisions, and in the present
state of judicial decision, the existence
or non-existence of this power in the
federal government can be determined
only by submitting a statute to the test
of judicial examination.
1 Ex parte Siebold, 100 U. S. 371; 394; In rc Neaglc, supra; Logan v. U. S., supra.
COLORED MEN LYNCHED WITH-
OUT TRIAL.
1885..		 78	1899....	....	84
1886..		 71	1900....	.... 107
1887..		 80	1901....	.... 107
IS88..		 95	1902....	.... 86
1889..		 95	1903....	.... 86
1890..		 90	1904....	....	83
1891..		 121	1905....	.... 61
1892..		 155	1906...-.	....	64
1893..		 154	1907....	... 60
1894..		 134	1908....	....	93
1895..		 112	1909....	....	73
1S96.		 SO	1910....	....	65
1S97. 1S9S.	19? 	 102 Total		1911....	....	63 ....1,521
The alleged causes for 1911 were:
Murder......................... 36
Rape .................... 7
Attempted rape........... 7
Insulting women.......... 4
Assault to kill.......... 3
“Prejudice” ............. 2
“Suspected rape”......... 1
Threats ................. 1
“Desperado” ............. 1
Robbery ................. 1
63
We give the figures above from the
Chicago Tribune. The Crisis believes
that at least 100 colored people were
lynched during the year 1911, and, there-
fore, we shall, in 1912, keep a careful
list ourselves.
Cj Palm Beach, Fla., February 3, 1912.
Dear -----------:
I am sending you a card, which so
aroused me until I purchased the entire
supply, with the purpose of enlisting
your aid in preventing the publication
of such cards. I don’t know how to
begin this work, but with the co-opera-
tion of such men as you, we must
accomplish something. Trusting you
will give this card and the letter seri-
ous consideration, I beg to remain,
Very truly yours-,
A part of the card is reproduced here.
It is printed in colors and marked
“Made in Germany, No. 28,293, by the
H. L. Co.”
q A large number of Negroes are being
arrested as vagrants. A letter in the
Savannah Tribune asks: “Is it because
there are no loafers among the other
races? Or is it on account of the ex-
plicit order from the chief of police to
arrest Negroes o.nly? A week or ten
days ago 108 able-bodied men were ar-
rested and detained in the barracks on
suspicion—men who are working every
day, or at least whenever an opportunity
for work is offered. The ‘milk in the
cocoanut’ is that the farmers want cot-
ton pickers at starvation price and worst
treatment, and at the same time there
will be races with automobiles very soon
—convict labor as opposed to free labor
is required to further the money-making
scheme of a body of enterprising citi-
zens. Why not lease some of these con-
victs to the M. & M. T. Co. or O. S.
So. Co.? The county has no more in-
terest in automobile races than handling
of freight by the companies named. Mr.
Editor, I believe the police department
could find a number of white loiterers
whenever they are instructed to look up
such.”
‘•LYNCHED
210
THE CRISIS
HISTORIC DAYS IN MARCH
1.	Sumner’s Civil 'Rights Bill signed,
1S75.
2.	Missouri Compromise passed,
1S20.
3.	Freedmen’s Bureau established,
1865. •
4.	James Forten, Negro anti-slavery
worker, died, 1842.
5.	Crispus Attucks fell in the Boston
Massacre, 1770.
7.	Daniel Webster’s 7th of March
Speech, 1850.
S. Frederick Douglass advocated an
industrial college for the education of
Negroes, 1853.
9. Massachusetts ratified Fifteenth
Amendment, 1869.
12.	Charles Sumner spoke against
annexation of San Domingo, 1871.
13.	Union armies forbidden to return
fugitive slaves, 1862.
14.	Menelik became Negus of Abys-
sinia, 1889.
15.	President Lincoln urged the bal-
lot “for some of the colored people,”
1864.
17. The Republic of Texas prohibited
African slave trade, 1836.
20. New York legalized enlistment of
Negroes, War of Revolution. 1781.
23.	Slavery abolished in Porto Rico,
1873.
24.	Negro troops mustered into Con-
federate service, 1865.
25.	British Parliament abolishes slave
trade, 1807.
26.	Richard Allen, first bishop of
African M. E. Church, died, 1831.
28.	French National Assembly gave
suffrage to free persons of color in
San Domingo, 1790.
29.	Napoleon issued decree against
slave trade, 1815.
30.	Thomas Clarkson, English aboli-
tionist. born, 1760.
Special message of President Grant on
the ratification of the Fifteenth Amend-
ment:
“To the Senate and House of Repre-
sentatives:
“It is unusual to notify the two
houses of Congress, by message, of the
promulgation by proclamation of the
Secretary of State, of the ratification of
a constitutional amendment. In view,
however, of the vast importance of the
Fifteenth Amendment to the Constitu-
tion, this day declared a part of that
renewed instrument, I deem a departure
from the usual custom justifiable. A
measure which makes at once four mil-
lions of people voters, who were here-
tofore declared by the highest tribunal
in the land not citizens of the United
States, nor eligible to become so (with
the assertion that, ‘at the time of the
Declaration of Independence, the opin-
ion was fixed and universal in the civil-
ized portion of the white race, regarded
as an axiom in morals as well as m
politics, that black men had no rights
which the white man was bound to re-
spect’), is indeed a measure of grander
importance than any other one act of
the kind from the foundation of our free
government to the present day.
“Institutions like ours, in which all
power is derived directly from the
people, must depend mainly upon their
intelligence, patriotism and industry. I
call the attention, therefore, of the
newly enfranchised race to the import-
ance of their striving in every honorable
manner to make themselves worthy of
their new 'privilege. To the race more
favored heretofore by our laws I would
say, withhold no legal privilege of ad-
vancement to the new citizen. The
framers of our Constitution firmly be-
lieved that a Republican government
could not endure without intelligence
and education generally diffused among
the people. The ‘Father of His Country'
in his farewell address, used this lan-
guage: ‘Promote then, as a matter of
primary importance, institutions for the
general diffusion of knowledge. In pro-
portion as the structure of the govern-
ment gives force to public opinion, it
is essential that public opinion should
be enlightened.’ In his first annual
message to Congress the same views
are forcibly presented, and are again
urged in his eighth message.
“I repeat that the adoption of the Fif-
teenth Amendment to the Constitution
completes the greatest civil change and
constitutes the most important event
that has occurred since the nation came
into life. The change will be beneficial
in proportion to the heed that is, given
to the urgent recommendation of Wash-
ington. If these recommendations were
important then, with a population of
but a few millions, how much more
important now. with a population of
forty millions, and increasing in a rapid
ratio?
“I would, therefore, call upon Con-
gress to take all the means within their
constitutional powers to promote and
encourage popular education throughout
the country, and upon the people every-
where to see to it that all who possess
and exercise political rights shall have
the opportunity to acquire the knowl-
edge which will make their share in
the government a blessing and not a
danger. By such means only can the
benefits contemplated by this amend-
ment to the Constitution be secured.”
L. M. Hershaw.
Conducted by JESSIE FA.USET
‘On the New-time Negro.” Mary White
Ovington in the Century for January.
1912.
This is a sympathetic drawing of a
parallel between the old and the new
Negro. Miss Ovington shows that it
is only fair to suppose that the loyalty,
the gentleness, the love for service,
which were found in the Negro in
slavery times, are still to be found in
him to-day. Only now they are turned
toward his own race. Are his quali-
ties then less admirable?
'‘The Upbuilding of Black Durham.
X.	C."’	\V. E. B. Du Bois. in The
World’s Work for January, 1912.
Here is an interesting account—
hopeful arfd sane—dealing with the
phenomenon of an ambitious, success-
ful and tolerated group of Negroes in
a Southern city. Here one may rind a
colored insurance company, a hosiery
mill, a planing mill and even a small
bank. run. it is true, under “rather
lenient banking laws." A number of
citizens have built themselves com-
fortable homes, but there is no dis-
play—the only item of unusual ex-
penditure is the sending of children
away to school. But what a significant
item!
Most important of all, Durham is
in the South and these people are only
a few Negroes in the midst of many
whites. The attitude of the latter,
however, has not only been in a few
cases actively helpful, but is. in the
main, passively tolerant. The Negro
has been given a chance. Surely this
is the solution.
Flower o' the Peach." Percival Gib-
bon. The Century Co.
So much that is favorable has been
said of this book that it is unneces-
sary to dwell any further on its
merits here. The significant thing is
that at last a dispassionate presenta-
tion of color-prejudice—its baseless-
ness and its shamefulness—has found
its way into modern literature. And.
behold! the book sells.
Of course, there is the inevitable
love-motif, but one is much more
interested in the adventures of the
Kaffir It is he who holds our inter-
est next to and almost along with
Miss Harding. Hardly anyone can
fail to wish that his path may be
finally made straight. In a • word,
whether Mr. Gibbon, who is very
discreet, means it or not. the book
comes as near having a black hero as
HOSIERY MILL IN DURHAM. N. C.
212
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
*5 B *10 A DAY
Ono Good Hustling: Agent Wanted
in every community to take orders for
our colobratod made-to-measure
clothes. You make.big profits—$2.00 to
$7.00 on every suit. Write os before
wo get an agent in your territory
and you will receive an a*tonl*h-
offor. No money, no esperi-
ice necessary.
WE START YOU FREE
We furnish you with every-
thing and place you in a business
of your own that will mean
from $1,500 to $3,000 a
aar to you. Easiest and
most profitable business
n tha world. Everyman
n your vicinity a possible
elastomer. Our low prices
and able assistance
get the trade for you.
PANTS *25?
SUITS *95?
We Prepay Express
—	,	. ,	Every garment cut
and made to measure in latest city style, perfect fit
guaranteed. Money refunded if goods are not satis-
factory. Beautiful Somplo Outfit, order blanks,
tape line, FREE. With our complete instructions you
can take measurements as accurately as any tailor.
Write for your territory and outfit today.
THE PROGRESS TAILORING CO., 1&5 Harrison Street. Chicago
No. 4 Special Buggy
$65.00
A value unequaled. Sold on
$1.00 Profit Margin, Write
for prices and other styles.
Send for catalog.
C. R. Patterson & Sons
GREENFIELD, OHIO
Largest Negro carriage concern In the United States
T<o> Coloiredl People
"p 0S SALE—We have houses from $1,000 to
$30,00u. Our city is the capital of Ohio
and a great manufacturing center—plenty of
work, a good place to locale for business. Can
sell you a house for $50, $100 to $500 down,
balance like rent. For investment and specu-
lating houses or business places, $1,000 to
$5,000 down, balance on long time payment.
Farm land prices from $1,000 to $10,000 up.
Any of these are in good locations. Write for
further information
THIS 18 A COLORED ENTERPRISE
EEDWARD A. SHANKLIN
Real Estate
1218V4 ML Vernon Ave. Columbus, Ohio
a white heroine. It is an interesting
book from cover to cover, and must
have made more than one reader
ashamed of his prejudice. One pon-
ders what will be the ultimate effect
of books like this. Perhaps—but then
it is a far cry from South Africa to
America.
“In 1689 the Spanish Crown granted
this pueblo a ‘league’ of land sur-
rounding their church, comprising
17,368 acres. The title of this was
confirmed by Act of Congress, .De-
cember 22, 1858, and is still held by the
Indians, except some small tracts that
they have sold from time to time, and
some huge tracts that they have been
juggled out of through the malad-
ministration of the United States Indian
officials in New Mexico. Of this, about
eight thousand acres were stolen from
the Indians in one deal. Eighteen years
ago one Smith induced the Santa Clara
Indians to sign what they supposed to
be a right of way for a road through
the land. When the paper turned up
for record, in later years, it proved to be
a deed to all of the Pueblo lands east
of the Rio Grande River, comprising
about eight thousand acres. Smith
transferred the land to one Hobart, who
claimed to be an ‘innocent purchaser.'
On account of protests, Judge William
H. Pope, as attorney for the Indians,
filed suit to set aside the deed. But
Judge Pope was transferred to the Phil-
ippines, and A. J. Abbott was appointed
as attorney for the Pueblo Indians in his
stead.
“But A. J. Abbott was the attorney
for Hobart in the 8,000-acre land deal.
This appointment was made under the
administration of Clinton J. Crandall,
the present Indian Superintendent at
Santa Fe.
“That suit for the Indians was allowed
to go by default under Crandall’s admin-
istration of affairs.
“For seven years the Santa Clara In-
dians have clamored for the reopening
of the suit. It was not until the com-
plaints began to become public that
F. S. Wilson, the present attorney for
the Pueblo Indians, would cpnsent to
apply for the reopening of the case.
And when he did ‘reopen’ it be forgot
to set up the only grounds upon which
he could reasonably hope to win—the
ground of ‘fraud.’”—From the “Story of
Juan Cruz,” by William E. Johnson.
The Rev. William Hayne Leavell,
D. D., LL. D., a Mississippi divine, is
seeking to further the cause of Chris-
tianity by urging the repeal of the
Fifteenth Amendment. The Negro, being
an inferior being, must be kept down,
and it is better for the moral sense of
the community that it should be done
openly rather than by subterfuge.
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
213
8. A. KELSEY, Pres.	DR. WM. J. CARTER, Chiropodist. MME. A. C. KEL8EY, Oen’l Instr.
The Kelsey School of Beauty Culture and Hair Dressing
328 Lenox Avenue, New York City
Manicuring, Shampooing, Hair Dressing, Beauty Culture, Hair Making and
Chiropody scientifically taught. Day and night sessions. Instructions given to
pupils in their own homes if desired. Diplomas awarded. Send for booklet-
directory of recently graduated students.
V* actual size
Ladies
We want you to try a
box of this delightfully
perfumed Talcum Pow-
der. Mailed, postpaid,
BEAUTIFUL ART EXHIBIT
Miss Cora Van Schoick is conducting a sale
and exhibit of unusual interest at the CLIO
SCHOOL 487 6th Avenue, between 29th and 30th
Streets, New York.
There is on sale hand-painted china and pil-
low tops, hand-made opera bags, pin cushions and
novelties. These hand creations are suggestive
for gifts and interior decorations.
upon receipt of 10c.,
silver or stamps.
ALEXANDER
SPECIALTY CO.
150 Nassau Street '
NEW YORK CITY
Sunlight at Night
Our new Inverted gas burner. 300-candle-
power light, made of steel enameled white,
with white crystal globe, bums 3*4 cubic
feet of gas per hour. Perfect combustion,
never smokes if properly regulated.
Also our Sun-Ray Kerosene Mantle Burn-
ers. IGu-candle-power light. One quart of
kerosene lasts 16 hours. Money back if
not as represented. Particulars free.
Simplex Gaslight Co., Dept. C. New York
ESTABLISHED 1887
’Phone 4715 Mad. Sq.
L. A. de TOSCANO CO.
OLDEST COLORED REGALIA ESTABLISHMENT IN THE CITY
Knight, of Pythias	BADGES	'Paraphernalia
Knight. Templars And Patriarchs	JEWELS	and Supplies for All Societies
Equipments	REGALIA	Estimates Given
Mme. B. E. de Toscano, Manager
146 WEST 31s( STREET	Bet. Sixth and Seventh Avenue.	NEW YORK CITY
Telephone 325S Harlem
CARPET CLEANING
Cleaners and Renovators
For Particular People
New York Careful Cleaning Bureau
12 WEST 135th STREET
We make a specialty of cleaning and renovating
carpets, rugs, portieres and upholstered furniture;
we also vacuum clean in the home. We are not
the largest carpet cleaner in the world, but abso-
lutely the most careful in every detail.
SHAMPOOING CARPETS AND RUGS OUR
SPECIALTY
O. Augustus Wright
Attomey-in-Fact
P. O. Box 121	Bedford City, Va.
Practices before the Department of the
Interior, and the several bureaus thereof
at Washington, D. C. Prosecutes
claims for pension, increase of pen-
sion and bounty land.
Searches made of U. S. Patent Office
records; assignments of patents pre-
pared and filed. Trademarks and copy-
rights procured.
Correspondence solicited.
Approved: Bureau of Pensions, J. P.
9-26-11.
Mention The Crisis.
214
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
The Meeting PI ace of Business and Proficiency
A professional man advertised in THE CRISIS for a partner with capital. The
profession is one that offers little encouragement to colored men and yet he writes:
“Kindly stop the advertisement in THE CRISIS, as my want has
been filled. We appreciate the very good results (from THE CRISIS)
and will forward check on the 15th.”
A large corporation advertised in THE CRISIS for a general manager with capital.
The wording of their advertisement eliminated all inquirers save those with capital
and experience. They write:
“We believe that one of the parties is really interested in our
proposition and will close with him in a few days. ”
They “closed” with him and have since advertised for other high-grade help.
There is our story in a nutshell.
Those who require high-grade help should use our “Help Wanted” columns, and
those who are trained or experienced as high-grade helpers should advertise their
services where they may reach the largest number of possible employers.
THE CRISIS CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING SERVICE IS THE
MEETING PLACE OF BUSINESS AND PROFICIENCY
HELP WANTED
WANTED—A man of character and ability to
fill the position of Financial Agent. Must be
a good lecturer and a convincing talker. This
will be a paying and permanent position.
Investigate at once.
Address THE S., I. & E. CORPORATION,
Mound Bayou, Miss.
WANTED AT ONCE!
COLLECTORS OF NAMES AND ADDRESSES
WANTED AT ONCE—One person in every city
in the United States, who can write plainly, to
send us names and addresses of lawyers, doctors,
merchants, business men of all professions, suf-
ferers of diseases, pensioners, and so forth.
Spare-time work and profitable pay. For further
particulars send two-cent stamp. Address
O. A. WRIGHT
Bedford City	Virginia
’Phonei Harlem, 6370
Middlesex Employment Agency '
Oilers you the benefit of its experience, gained
by years of actual conduct of business and the
prestige that comes from a large clientele of
satisfied patrons.
Our rigid investigation of references keeps our
standard high. Mail orders solicited.
2229 Fifth Avenue, near 136th Street,
New York.
RELIABLE HELP at all times for the most
discriminating employers.
Out-of-town correspondence invited.
References thoroughly investigated
Address:
MISS I. L. MOORMAN
463 Lenox Avenue	New York
SITUATIONS WANTED
YOUNG LADY, competent and experienced,
desires position as typewriter, private secre-
tary or office helper. References. Address
F. L., care of THE CRISIS office.
________REAL ESTATE_____________
V&taaMe Texas Lands
F<o>r Sale
Large tracts of farm land in the best local-
ities of the State for sale at very flattering
prices. Small tracts for good lnnds suitable for
farming, truck, fruits and any domestic product.
We have for Bale a number of large farms al-
ready in cultivation, good houses and barns,
wells, and nice pasture lands, which can be
obtained at reasonable rateB. City property a
specialty. Business lots in the best part of
the city, improved and unimproved. Large lots
suitable for factory property with switch
facilities.
No investment can be more valuable than an
investment in Texns real estate. Lands are be-
coming so valuable that they are doubling
themselves in value in less than a year’s time.
For any investment in Texas property, write
T. B. Madison Real Estate Company, 2415 Elm
Street, Dallas, Texas.
Mention The Crisis.
The crisis advertiser
215
AGENTS WANTED
$25.00 PER WEEK
may be made in commissions by parties hand-
ling ‘History of Negro Soldiers in Spanish-
Amoricnn War” combined with ‘‘History of the
Negro Race.” 400 pages, 50 illustrations.
Price $1.25 net. Address
E. A. JOHNSON
151 Nassau Street	New York
AGENTS—$6 0 IN 6 DAYS
This Is the report of Mr.
E«Jw. Carney, one of our
Agents. You can do as
well selling our Daisy
Safety Itazor. Sample by
mail 2a cents. Per dozen
$2.00—12 New Sharp Keen
Blades 35 cents. All post-
paid. Guaranteed. Money
back If not as represented. Territory going fast. Sturt
at once. Other money makers as welL Particulars free.
BUSSING-WHEATON CO., Inc., Dept. C
23 Park Row	New York
MEN AND WOMEN WANTED
to sell beautiful Art Pictures of Negro
subjects. Our agents are coining money
on these pictures.
Three sample pictures by mail, 35 cents.
Ten sample postcards by mail, 6 cents.
Address: JACOB GRIFFITH
252 W. 53d Street	New York
MUSIC
HELEN ELISE SMITH
CONCERT PIANIST
Post-Graduate of the Institute of Musical Art
Pupil of Sigismund Stojowski
Teacher of Piano, Theory, Ear-training, etc.
224 EAST 86TH STREET, NEW YORK CITY
REGALIA
A RACE ENTERPRISE
Manufacturing Badges, Banners and
Supplies for all Fraternal and Church
Societies. Catalogue upon request.
CENTRAL REGALIA CO.
Jos. L. Jones, Pres.
N. E. Cor. 8th and Plum Streets
Cincinnati, Ohio
PATENTS
L.	H. LATIMER
MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEER
and
SOLICITOR OF PATENTS
55 John Street	New York
Inventions Perfected, Models and Experi-
mental Machines Designed and Constructed.
Technical Translations.
Telephone 343 John	Room 604
FURRIER
Seventeen Years’ Experience
WORK TURNED OUT PROMPTLY
MRS. G. B. NEEDLES
Late with Broadway houses
PRACTICAL FURRIER
All kinds of furs remodelled, repaired and re-
lined. White furs cleaned, equal to new. Coata
guaranteed to lit. Prices reasonable.
24 WEST 136TH STREET	NEW YORK
SCHOOLS
Our Normal Preparatory Course
includes a thorough review of Arithmetic, Gram-
mar, Geography, U. S. History, Physiology,
Reading, Spelling, Penmanship, Drawing, Civil
Government and Theory and Art of Teaching.
Just the thing to prepare you for a teachers’
examination. Address
AFRO-AMERICAN CORRESPONDENCE
SCHOOL
2808 St. Ann Street	New Orleans, La.
BOOKS
The Curse of Race Prejudice
/Aim F. Mobton, Jb., A.M., Author and Publisher
Forceful, rational, comprehensive. An arsenal
of facts and unanswerable arguments. Invaluable
for propaganda. Read the chapter on “The Bug-
bear of Social Equality,” which is a veritable
eye-opener. Thousands already sold. Agents
wanted everywhere.
PRICE 25 CENTS
Address the Author at 244 West 148d Street,
New York. N. Y.
LEGAL DIRECTORY
J. DOUGLAS WETMORE
Attorney and Counsklob-at-Law
5 Beekman Street (Temple Court)
New York City
Tel. 6222 Cortlandt	Cable Address, Judowet
Rtal Estate and Probate Matters a Specialty
ROBERT B. BARCUS
Attobney and Counselor-at-Law
Notaby Public
Office: Room 502, Eberly Block Columbus, O.
FREDERICK L. McGHEE
Attorney and Counsklob-at-Law
Union Block, Fourth and Cedar Streets
St Paul, Minn.
B.	S. SMITH
Attobney and Counselor-at-Law.
Offices: Suite 610, Sykes Block
Minneapolis, Minn.
General Practice	Notary Public
WILLIAM R. MORRIS
Attobney and Counselor-at-Law
1020 Metropolitan Ufe Building
Minneapolis, Minn.
GEORGE W. MITCHELL
Attobney-at-Law
908 Walnut Street
Philadelphia, Pa.
Mention The Crisis.
216
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
iEaraljaU’a iiotrl ITTTTTT
COMFORT—Large, airy rooms, offering genuine home comforts plus the
conveniences and privileges of a modern hotel.
SERVICE—In the hotel and dining room the “Marshall’' service is an excep-
tional feature, which assures comfort and pleasure for our patrons.
Restaurant open all night.	Cuisine to satisfy the most discriminating
VOCAL AND INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC EVERY EVENING
Breakfast, 7:30 to 12:30, 30c. Luncheon, 12:30 to 3, 30c. Dinner, 6 to 8, 35c.
Special Course Dinner Every Sunday and Holidays, 50c.
Telephones 469S - 4694 Columbus	J. L. MARSHALL, Proprietor
THE SOUTHERN RESTAURANT
2229 Fifth Avenue
Bet. 135th and 136th Sts.
Beal Home Cooking; Meals Served at All Hours.
REASONABLE RATES EXCELLENT SERVICE
Home-made Rolls Served Hot
’Phone 2877 Lenox
WHITE ROSE WORKING GIRLS’
HOME
217 East 86th Street
Bet. Second and Third Avenues
Pleasant temporary lodgings for working girls,
with privileges, at reasonable rates. The Home
solicits orders for working dresses, aprons, etc.
Address:
MBS. FRANCES B. KEYSER, Bupt.
NORTH CAROLINA
SANDERS’ HOTEL
301 S. Caldwell Street, Charlotte, N. C.
’Phone 681
WARREN
Hot and Cold Baths
HOTEL
Ideal location for transient and permanent
boarders. All modern conveniences and comforts
of home life.
J.	T. SANDERS
Proprietor
MISS BETTIE DUNCAN, Proprietress
First-class accommodations. Meals at all hours.
RATES REASONABLE
COR RAMSEY AND PROCTOR STREETS
Three Blocks from Union Station
DURHAM, N. C.
GOOD COMMISSION PAID TO ORGANIZERS. JOIN NOW!		Too, Too I	Too, Too I	Too, Too I
		SOMETHING NEW
		TAne Afiro-Americaii
		Order off Orioles
		With a Graduated Scale of Endowment
110]/z Colfax Ave., South Bend, Ind.		I For particulars write G. W. BLAND, H. S. P.
Mutual Teachers’ Agency
(A Bureau for Colored Teachers)
Recommends teachers for schools; secures employment for
teachers. Now is the time to register. Blanks and infor-
mation furnished free on application. Local and long-
distance telephone, North 1625.
S.	M. KENDRICK, Secretary
1335 T STREET, N. W.	WASHINGTON, D. C.
Mention The Caisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
217
.1 \
BOORS
ARE/YOU INTERESTED
( ^IN Tlffi) ,'j )
NEGRO PROBLEM
OR A' f
PARTOFylT
I
THE
MAGAZINE
STUDENTS OF THE NEGRO PROBLEM
The Souls of Black Folk, DuBois
History of the Negro ■ Washington
John Brown *	• DuBois
Up From Slavery •	• Washington
Poems oi Paul Laurence
Dunbar
Poems of W. S. Braith-
waite
Race Adjustment	•	Miller
Negro In the New World, Johnston
Following the Color Line, Baker
Works of Charles W.
Chestnutt
Atlanta.liniversity Studies
Negro and the Nation • Merriam
Negro In the South • • ^ as^inSlon
1 DuBois
Aftermath of Slavery • Sinclair
Half a Man •	•	Ovington
Life of Harriet Beecher
Stowe • ■ • • Stowe
Mind of Primitive	Man,	Boaz
Race Prejudice •	•	Finot
Curse of Race Prejudice, Morton
Quest of the Silver Fleece,
a novel -	-	- DuBois
Through Afro-America, Archer
Southern South •	*	Hart
In(er=Racial Problems, Official Record
of the Universal Races Congress
i
THE CRISIS
V RECORD OF r»IF DARKER R \CES
And general readers will
find this list embraces the
most popular and compre-
hensive studies of the Negro
question. They are the
best books by the best
wnters and thinkers. By
special arrangements with
the publishers of the books
we are in position to make
combination offers at re-
markably low prices. This
oifer is good for a limited
time only and is made to
increase the subscription
list of
THE CRISIS
the magazine edited by
W. E. B. DuBois with the co-operation of Oswald Garrison
Villard. Charles Edward- Russell. Kelly Miller and
others. The Crisis is the organ of the National As-
sociation For the Advancement of Colored People
and is a record of every important happening and
movement in the world which bears on the great
problems of inter racial relations and especially
those which affect the Negro American
OUR OFFER:
We have made special combrnati
To the
Publishers
of the CRISIS.
20 Vesey Street*
New York City.
& Gentlemen :
nons
with these books in sets of five. ten. fif-	ease send,
,	.	,	. without anv cost to
teen and twenty, together with a -N	.
. .	<5* me. your descriptive
year’s subscription totheCW.j7.j,	circular
and will be glad to have the
and addresses of all
names.
who find themselves
interested in this
greatest of
problems.
sets
Negro Problem
year’s subscription
CRISIS.
Name__________ ________
Address________________
City______________________
offering these
books on the
and a
to the
Mention The Crisis.
218
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
A limited number of
free beds maintained
for the worthy poor.
Other word patlenta
maintained at $7.00
per week.
Private rooms can
bo secured from
$12.00 to $30.00 per
week.
The training school
for nurses maintains
a two years’ course.
A high school cer-
tificate, or an edu-
cation sufficient to
be considered an
equivalent, necessary
for admission.
Five thousand dol-
lars endows a free
bed.
Andrew F. Steven*.
President
Nathan F. Moesell. M.D.
Medical Director and
Superintendent.
Frederick Douglass Memorial Hospital and Training School. Philadelphia. Pa.
Underwood
Standard Typewriter
Tke UNDERWOOD is designed on
correct mechanical principles, is made of
the hest material and is unequalled in
speed, accuracy, ease of operation and
durability. UNDERWOOD sales
exceed those of any other machine.
“THE MACHINE YOU WILL
EVENTUALLY BUY"
Underwood Typewriter Co.,
INCORPORATED
Underwood Building New York
PAMPHLETS
Published by
The National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People
1.	Disfranchisement: A powerful argu-
ment by the Rev. John Haynes Holmes.
Price 5 cents.
2.	Education in the South: Facts about
the discrimination against the Negro. By
the Rev. Horace Bumstead, former presi-
dent of Atlanta University. Price 5 cents.
3.	The Real Race Problem: A scientific
comparison of the black and the white man
by America’s foremost anthropologist,
Prof. Boas, of Columbia University. Price
5 cents.
4.	Social Control: By Jane Addams, of
Hull House. Price 1 cent.
5.	The Negro as a Soldier: By Briga-
dier-General Burt, U. S. A. Price 5 cents.
6.	Leaving It to the South: An experi-
ence and some conclusions by Charles
Edward Russell. Price 5 cents.
7.	Views of a Southern Woman: By
Adelene Moffat. Price 2 cents.
Address
The Crisis Book Department
20 VESEY STREET	NEW YORK
Mention Thk C*isis.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION for the
ADVANCEMENT of COLORED PEOPLE
Offices: Suite 311, 20 Vesey Street, New York. Incorporated May 25, 1911
OBJECT.—The National Association
for the Advancement of Colored People
is an organization of persons who believe
that the present prejudice against colored
races, and particularly the denial of rights
and opportunities to ten million Americans
of Negro descent, is not only unjust and
a menace to our free institutions, but also
is a direct hindrance to World Peace and
the realization of Human Brotherhood.
METHODS.—The work is carried
on by four bureaus: 1. Lecture Bureau.
2.	Bureau of Legal Assistance. 3.
Bureau of Information. 4. Bureau of
Publicity and Research.
The organ of the association is The
Crisis.
ORGANIZATION.—Membership is
open to all. The annual fee varies from
$1 to $100. Life memberships are $500.
The expenses of the association for the
last twelve months were $9,000.
We need $14,000 for the coming year.
OFFICERS
National President — Mr. Moorheld
Storey, Boston, Mass.
Vice-Presidents—
Rev. John Haynes Holmes, New York.
Mr. John E. Milholland, New York.
Bishop Alexander Walters, New York.
Rev. Garnet R. Waller, Baltimore,
Md.
Chairman of the Executive Committee—
Mr. Oswald Garrison Villard, New
York.
Treasurer—Mr. Walter E. Sachs, New
York.
Director of Publicity and Research—
Dr. W. E. B. Du Bois, New York.
Secretary—Miss Mary W. Ovington,
Brooklyn, N. Y.
Assistant Secretary — Miss Martha
Gruening, New York.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Terms Expire 1913
Mr. George W. Crawford. New Haven
Mr. Thomas Ewing. Jr.. New York
Mr. Paul Kennaday. New York
Mr. Joseph P. Loud, Boston
Mr. Royal Freeman Nash. Brooklyn
Rev. a. Clayton Powell. New York
Rev. Joseph Silverman. New York
Dr. William A. Sinclair, Philadelphia
Miss Lillian D. Wald. New York
Rev. G. R. Waller. Baltimore
Terms Expire 1914
Miss Jane Addams, Chicago
Dr. C. E. Bentley. Chicago
Rev. W. H. Brooks. New York
l>r. W. E. B. Du Bois. New York
Mrs. Florence Kelley. New York
Mrs. F. R. Keyser, New York
Dr. N. F. Mossell. Philadelphia
Miss Mary White Ovington. Brooklyn
Mr. Charles Edward Russell. New York
"Mrs. M. C. Terrell. Washington. D. C.
Terms Expire 1915
Rev. John Haynes Holmes. New York
Mrs. M. D. Maclean. New York
Mr. John E. Milholland, New York
Mr. Walter E. Sachs. New York
Mr. Joel E. Splngam. New York
Mr. Moorfleld Storey. Boston
Mr. Oswald Garrison Villard. New York
Dr. O. M. Waller. Brooklyn
Mr. William English Walling. New York
Bishop Alexander Walters. New Y'ork
ADVISORY COMMITTEE
Hon. Wm. S. Bennet. New York
Miss Frances Blascoer. New Y’ork
Mr. W. L. Bulkier. New Y’ork
Prof. John Dewey. New York
Dr. John Lovejoy Elliott. New York
Mr. Hamilton Holt. New Y’ork
Miss Maud R. Ingersoll. New York
Mrs. Max Morgenthau. Jr.. New York
Mr. James F. Morton. Jr.. New York
Mr. Henry Moskowitz. New Y’ork
Miss Leonora O'Reilly. New Y’ork
Mr. Jacob H. Schiff, New York
Prof. E. R. A. Seligman. New York
Mrs. Anna Garlin Spencer. New Y’ork
Mrs. Henry Villard. New York
Dr. Stephen S. Wise. New York
Mr. D. Macon Webster. Brooklyn
Mr. Geo. E. Wibecan. Jr., Brooklyn
Hon. Thomas M. Osborne. Aubum, N. Y’.
Miss Marla Baldwin. Boston. Mass.
Mr. Francis J. Garrison. Boston. Mass.
Mr. Archibald H. Grimke. Boston. Mass.
Miss Adelene Moffat. Boston. Mass.
Hon. Albert E. Pillsbury. Boston. Mass.
Mr. Wm. Munroe Trotter. Boston. Mass.
Dr. Horace Bumstead, Brookline. Mass.
Miss Elizabeth C. Carter. New Bedford, Mass.
Prest. Chas. T. ThuYng. Cleveland, O.
Mr. Chas. W. Ohesnutt. Cleveland. O.
Hon. Harry C. Smith. Cleveland, O.
Prest. H. C. King. Oberlin. O.
Prest. W. S. Scarborough. Wllberforce. 0.
Mrs. Ida B. Wells Barnett. Chicago. III.
Miss S. P. Breckenridge. Chicago. 111.
Mr. Clarence Darrow. Chicago. 111.
Mr. Julius Rosenwakl. Chicago. 11L
Mrs. Celia Parker Woolley. Chicago. 111.
Mr. F. I.. McGhee. St. Paul. Minn.
Miss Frances Bartholomew. Philadelphia. Pa.
Miss Susan Wharton. Philadelphia. Pa.
Mr R. R. Wright. Jr.. Philadelphia. Pa.
Mr. W. Justin Carter. Harrisburg. Pa.
Rev. Harvey Johnson. Baltimore. Md.
Mrs. Carrie W. Clifford. Washington. D. C.
Mr. L. M. Hershaw. Washington. D. C.
Prof. Kelly Miller. Washington. D. C.
Prof. L. B. Moore. Washington. D. C.
Justice W. P. Stafford. Washington. D. C.
Rev. J. Milton Waldron. Washington. D. C.
Prest. John Hope. Atlanta. Ga.
Mr. Leslie P. Hill. Manassas. Ya.
Mr. William Pickens. Talladega. Ala.
IVlake Your Spare Aloments Profitable
^ The continued growth of The Crisis necessitates the extension of our
field force, and we need representatives in all cities to establish sub-agencies
and look after renewals.
^ If you can spare a few hours each month to look after our interests
in your city, we can make you a proposition that will interest you. The
work is dignified as well as profitable.
Address, and send references to
FRANK M. TURNER, Circulation Manager
20 VESEY STREET	NEW YORK
A Person of Discriminating Taste
appreciates the careful
attention to every detail
which we exercise in the
production of things from
our print shop, as is evi-
denced by the letter here-
with from Prof. J. E.
Spingarn, formerly of
Columbia University.
Let us make an esti-
mate on your work.
J. E. SPINGARN
9 west 73d street
NEW YORK
December 6, 1911.
Mr. Robert N. Wood,
202 East 99th Street, City.
My dear Mr. Wood:
I enclose my cheque for $561.72, in full
payment of the balance of my account in
connection with the printing and distribu-
tion of my pamphlet, “A Question of
Academic Freedom.” I have not yet veri-
fied the completeness of the distribution
by the mailing company which you
employed, but so far as your work as
a printer is concerned, I take pleasure in
saying that you attended to every detail
in the most efficient and conscientious
manner possible, and that I owe you cordial
appreciation for the interest and care you
have taken in this whole matter. You may
use this letter in any way you please, and
may refer to me any prospective client who
is anxious to obtain the services of a first-
class printer.
Very truly yours,
(Signed) J. E. Spingarn.
ROBERT N. WOOD “'“SoS™1
Mention The Crisis.

Publishers' Chat with Readers
ENLARGEMENT
With this edition The CRISIS becomes a magazine of 52 pages. We hope
always to keep the magazine small and readable, excellent by the quality rather than
by the amount of matter presented.
NEW TYPE—Our printer begged a month’s respite before installing wider
columns and new and more readable type. These changes will therefore inaugurate
the opening of the fourth volume.
NEW OFFICERS—We began in one room, like all good things, and we
had space to share. We overflowed into three rooms in three months and hastily
engaged offices on another floor of the Evening Post Building, where we had a
suite of four rooms. Here we sat down and breathed freely—for about one month.
Then the desks multiplied and the visitors came crowding; there were the new
addressograph, the new multigraph, and so many new typewriters that we lost
count. In short, we must have more room or step on each other.
Beginning, therefore, with April 15, we shall occupy a whole floor of the
Evening Post annex—about 1,600 square feet of space. Here the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People and The CRISIS will occupy
eight offices, beside a small reception room, a library, a large workroom and dressing
rooms. As soon as we are settled, please call.
THE GROWTH OF THE CRISIS—From the printing of the first copy
of The CRISIS our policy has been to tell the exact truth as to its circulation.
Some of our business advisers thought this inadvisable, but we have maintained
our position. We publish here again the facts as to our circulation:
Nov.	1910			 1,000	June	1911			12,000
Jan.	1911			 3,000	July	1911			15,000
Mar.	1911			 6,000	Dec.	1911			16,000
Apr.	1911			10,000	Apr.	1912			22,500
Practically the whole edition, each month, has been sold, less than 500 copies
on the average being returned, and very few samples being sent out.
THE MAY CRISIS—The May Crisis will be “Conference” Number.
Three great churches hold conferences during that month and this seems a fit time
to pass their work in careful critical review, to illustrate their leaders and meetings,
and in general to give an idea of their work.
There will be a striking cover picture, a cartoon by Adams, and an article
on “The Color Line” by Dr. W. Flinders Petrie of London University, the
greatest living authority on Egyptology.
THE CRISIS
A RECORD OF THE DARKER RACES
Published by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, at
20 Vesey Street, New York City.
W. E. BURGHARDT DU BOIS, Editor
M. D. MACLEAN, Managing Editor
FRANK M. TURNER, Circulation Manager
ALBON L. HOLSEY, Advertising Manager
Contributing
Editors
OSWALD GARRISON VILLARD
J. MAX BARBER
CHARLES EDWARD RUSSELL
W. S. BRAITHWAITE
KELLY MILLER
Subscription: $1.00 a year; 50 cents for six months. Foreign subscriptions, 25 cents extra.
Subscriptions to begin with current issue or changes of address must reach us before the 15th
of the month.
Volume Three	APRIL, 1912	Number Six
CONTENTS
COVER DESIGN. By Richard Lonsdale Brown.
Page
ALONG THE COLOR LINE.......................................... 227
MEN OF THE MONTH.............................................. 234
OPINION ...................................................... 236
EDITORIAL..................................................... 244
THE DOLL—A Story. By Charles Waddell Chesnutt. Illustrated.... 248
RONDEAU. By Jessie Fauset..................................... 252
THE BURDEN.................................................... 253
RICHARD LONSDALE BROWN.	By	M. D. Maclean. Illustrated.... 255
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE ........................................... 258
HISTORIC DAYS IN APRIL.	By	L.	M. Hershaw................... 259
TWILIGHT—An Impression. By William Stanley Braithwaite.
Illustrated Title by Louise R. Latimer.................... 260
WHAT TO READ.................................................. 261
APRIL EDITION 22.500 COPIES
Agents wanted who can furnish references. Entered as
ONE DOLLAR A YEAR
second-class matter in the P. O. at N. Y. City
TEN CENTS A COPY
224
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
FORWARD
MARCH YOUR SON OFF TO
Wilberforce University
The only school in the country for
Negro Youth which has a Military De-
Sartment equipped by the National
overnment, ana commanded by a detailed
United States Army Officer.
DEPARTMENTS
MILITARY
NORMAL
COMMERCIAL
CLASSICAL
SCIENTIFIC
TECHNICAL
THEOLOGICAL
MUSICAL
PREPARATORY
Banking taught by the actual operations
In the Students’ Barings Bonk. Twelve
Industries, 180 acreB of beautiful campus,
Ton Buildings. Healthful surroundings,
exceptional community. Maintained in
Par>„Dy *ke State of Ohio which supplies
facilities for the thorough training of
teachers.
Fall term began September 19th, 1911.
Write for Catalog. * I.
W. S. SCARBOROUGH. Prc.idcnt
WM. A. JOINER, Superintendent, C. N.
I. Department.
Address all communications to
BOX 30	WILBERFORCE, OHIO
Atlanta University
Is beautifully located in the City of Atlanta, Ga.
The courses of study include High School, Nor-
mal School and College, with manual training
and domestic science. Among the teachers are
graduates of Yale, Harvard, Dartmouth, Smith
and Wellesley. Forty-one years of successful
work have been completed. Students come from
all parts of the South. Graduates are almost
universally successful.
For. further information address
President EDWARD T. WARE
ATLANTA, GA.
Knoxville College
Beautiful Situation, Healthful Location
The Best Moral and Spiritual Environment
A Splendid Intellectual Atmosphere
Noted for Honest and Thorough Work
Offers full courses in the following depart-
ments: College, Normal, High School, Grammar
School and Industrial.
Good water, steam heat, electric lights, good
drainage. Expenses very reasonable.
Opportunity for Self-help.
Fall Term Opened Sept. 27, 1911.
For information address
President R. W. McGranahan
KNOXVILLE, TENN.
Uirginia Union University
RICHMOND, VA.
A Oollege Department, of high standards and
modern curriculum.
A Theological Department, with all aubjects
generally required in the best theological
seminaries.
An Academy, with manual training, giving
a preparation for life or for college.
The positive moral and religious aim of the
school, its high standards of entrance and of
class work, its flue new buildings and well-
equipped laboratories and library, prepare a
faithful student for a life of wide usefulness.
GEORGE RICE HOVEY, President
Afir<o>=American
Correspondence
Scfiiooll
Offers a full Normal Preparatory Courso,
consisting of thorough reviews in Arith-
metic, Grammar. Geography, History,
Physiology, Reading. Spelling, Penman-
ship, Drawing, Civil Government and
Theory and Art of Teaching. Just the
thing to prepare you for a teacher’s ex-
amination. Address
Afro - American Correspondence School
2808 St. Ann Street New Orleans, La.
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
225
A Social Study of the Negro in New York
HALF A MAN”
By
MARY WHITE OVINGTON
With a Foreword by Dr. Franz Boas, of Columbia University
This book is the result of years of careful study and personal acquaint-
ance with actual conditions in New York.
Its truths being applicable to all communities where the two races live
together, it must be considered one of the best social studies of recent years.
Price, $1.00; by mail, $1.12.
LONGMANS, GREEN & CO., Publishers, NEW YORK
This book is for sale in the Book Department of The CRISIS, 20
Vesey St., New York.
i
LIFE AND WORKS
PAUL
LAURENCE
DUNBAR’S
by
Lida Keck ^Viggins
and Introduction
by
W. Dean Howells
What late Col. Robt. Ingersoll thought
of work:
220 Madison Ave.,
April, 1S96, New York City.
My Dear Dr. Tobey:
At last I got the time to read the
poems of Dunbar. Some of them are
really wonderful—full of poetry and phil-
osophy. 1 aui astonished at their depth
and subtlety. Dunbar is a thinker. “The
Mystery” is a poem worthy of the great-
est. It is absolutely true and proves that
its author is a profound and thoughtful
man. “Ere Sleep Comes Down to Soothe
the Weary Eyes” is a wonderful poem;
the fifth verse is perfect.
I have only time to say Dunbar is a
fenius. Now what can be done for him?
would like to help.
Thanking you for the book, I remain,
Yours always,
R. G. INGERSOLL.
Postpaid, $2, $2.75, $3.75.
T. G~. GUILES
2HA St. Antoine Street	Montreal, Can.
Atlanta University
Studies of the
Negro Problems
15 Monographs. Sold Separately.
Address:
A. G. DILL
Atlanta University, Atlanta, Ga.
PUBLICATIONS
A. M. E. Book Concern Philadelphia, Pa.
THE POEMS OP PHYLLIS WHEATLEY.
Reprint of first edition 1778; a valuable book.
Price. $1.00.
THE NEGRO PROBLEM. An analysis: What
It Is Not and What It la; by R. JL Wright, Jr.
In pamphlet form. 15 cents.
THE COLORED REGULARS. By T. G.
Steward. Chaplain U. S. A., retired. Priee, $1.50.
EVOLUTION AND LITE. By Algernon B.
Jackson, 8urgeon-in-chief Mercy Hospital. Price,
75 cents.
THE NEGRO IN PENNSYLVANIA. A Study
In Economic History: By R. R. Wright, Jr.,
Sometime Research Fellow in Sociology in the
University of Pennsylvania. Price, Paper, $9.00;
Cloth, $3.50.
Address
A. M. E. BOOK CONCERN
631 Pine Street.	Philadelphia. Pa.
Mention The Crisis.
226
THE CRISIS A D VER TISER
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION for the
ADVANCEMENT of COLORED PEOPLE
Offices: Suite 311, 20 Vesey Street, New York. Incorporated May 25, 1911
OFFICERS
National President—Mr. Moorfleld Storey, Boston,
Mass.
Vice-Presidents—
Rev. John Haynes Holmes, New York.
Mr. John E. Milholland, New York.
Bishop Alexander Walters, New York.
Rev. Oarnet R. Waller, Baltimore, Md.
Chairman of the Executive Committee—
Mr. Oswald Garrison Villard, Now York.
Treasurer—Mr. Walter E. Sachs, New York.
Director of Publicity and Rosoarch—
Dr. W. E. B. Du Bois, New York.
Secretary—Miss Mary W. Ovington, Brooklyn,
N. Y.
Assistant Secretary—Miss Martha Gruening,
Now York.
This year we shall attack segregation laws, investigate lynching,
defend the Negro in his civil rights, protest unceasingly against
race discrimination.
We want 2,000 members January 1, 1913. Watch the clock!
looo MEI-IBEHS,
OUR.
1500 MEMBET^S,
CLOCK.
MEMBERSHIP BLANK
I hereby accept membership in the NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCE-
MENT OF COLORED PEOPLE.
Please find enclosed___________*__dollars and enter my name as a member in
Class ..........paying $_...........a year, and send me THE CRISIS.
Name
Address
Class 1. Life Members, paying $500.
Class 2. Donors, paying $100 per year.
Class 3. Sustaining Members, paying $25
per year.
Class 4. Contributing Members, paying
$10, $5 or $2 per year.
Class 5. Associate Members, paying $1
per year.
All members in good standing have the privilege of attending and voting at the
Annual Conference of the Association.	1
Members paying $5 or more will receive THE CRISIS on signifying their wish
that $1 of their dues be devoted to that purpose.
PLEASE MAKE CHECKS PAYABLE TO NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT
OF COLORED PEOPLE, 20 VESEY STREET, NEW YORK CITY.
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS
Volume Tki
APRIL, 1912
Number Si:
ALONG
COLOR
POLITICAL.
Mr. George II. Woodson, a colored
lawyer of Buxton, la., is considering
making a race for the legislature. Bux-
ton is a large Negro mining community.
Frederick, Md., has finally given up
its fight with the courts and eliminated
the “grandfather clause” from its char-
ter.
<3 The colored Republicans of Virginia
have been appealing to President Taft
against the machinations of the Lily
Whites. Colored men from North Caro-
lina are making the same appeal.
and not the National Republican Com-
mittee. The national subcommittee
settled the old trouble by taking the
returns of the Secretary of State of the
Republican primary of January 24 as the
basis for adjusting the differences.
These returns showed the election of
eleven of the so-called black-and-tan
candidates for State Central Committee-
men and awarded that number of com-
mitteemen to the Kuntz faction. All
the rest were awarded to the Williams
faction. The subcommittee awarded
seven delegates to the Kuntz faction and
thirteen to the Williams faction.
^ It is said that President Taft is some-
what worried concerning the effect of
the Roosevelt candidacy on the Negro
vote. On the other hand, the Negroes
are still remembering Brownsville. *
*3 Charles GrifRn, a colored member of
the Miners’ Association of Indiana,
received a large vote for office in the
recent primaries.
<3 The proposed “grandfather clause”
amendment to the Arkansas constitution
is being fought by the newly organized
Suffrage League among the colored
people of Arkansas. The Socialists also
seem to be going on record against it.
C| The Republican party of Louisiana
was reorganized by a subcommittee of
the national committee a few weeks ago,
but the reorganization has caused a big
split and things are in as bad a shape as
before. The new trouble comes from
members of the erstwhile Williams
committee, who resent the interference
of the national subcommittee in Louisi-
ana Republican affairs. They claim that
the Louisiana courts are the proper
authorities to which Louisiana Repub-
licans must go for the settlement of dif-
ferences bearing on the construction of
primary election and organization laws
THE GHETTO.
For the first time in the history of
Decatur, Ind., Negro children have been
allowed to enter the public schools as
pupils.
<3 The “Christian Endeavorers” have
again distinguished themselves by their
attitude toward colored people. At their
recent meeting in Washington colored
delegates were segregated in the back of
the room and nearly half of them
walked out in protest.
<J The American Bar Association is try-
ing to get rid of Hon. W. H. Lewis, who
was elected a member by its executive
committee before the last annual meet-
ing. The new executive committee has
rescinded his election and placed him
on the list of candidates to be voted for
again. Attorney-General Wickersham
and others have sent letters of protest.
Dr. Thomas E. McLain, of Denver,
Col., has finally been so intimidated by
the white people as to give up building
the new house that he had started in a
white neighborhood.
C3 The Virginia Senate has passed a bill
giving any city or town in the State the
right to segregate Negroes.
228
THE CRISIS
<3 The Association of American Medical
Colleges, at its twenty-second annual
convention in Chicago recently, voted to
have a “Jim Crow” associate member-
ship for Negro colleges.
<J The colored people of Chicago and
Philadelphia are keeping careful watch
of a few reactionaries and their colored
tools, who seek to have separate schools
for the races.
<3 The House of Delegates of Maryland
defeated, by a vote of 76 to 11, the anti-
lynching bill which made communities
where lynchings occur liable for dam-
ages up to $5,000. One of the opponents
of the bill said: “It may be true that
Ohio and Illinois have this bill in their
statutes, but there isn’t a Southern State
that has it and I believe there are good
reasons why all of them should not. I
don’t think Maryland wants to begin
this.”
<3 The city of Asbury Park is trying to
get rid of its very efficient Negro fire
company. The company is carrying the
case to higher courts.
<3 William F. Brown, a prominent white
Southerner and head of the Southern
Female College at LaGrange, Ga., one
of the oldest institutions for white girls
in the South, was found in an Atlanta
hotel with one of his 19-year-old pupils
registered as man and wife. Mr. Brown
has resigned.
<3 It has leaked out that when Sylvia
Pankhurst went to Nashville at the
invitation of the local suffrage associa-
tion, the Nashville League learned that
she had accepted an invitation to
address the students of Fisk University.
They “kept the wires hot between that
city and New York,” but Miss Pankhurst
kept her engagement.
<1 A poor white woman in Montgomery
Ala., tells of her distress as follows:
“During the summer, when there was nc
work at the mill, I worked at a laundry
in the city.
“When I first went to the laundry there
were fourteen white women. One by one
they left, and I had to work with Ne-
groes or throw up my job and see my
children starve. There were four of them
sick in bed with fever when I finally
came to words with one of the Negro
women and was myself discharged. Well.
I was wretched then, to be sure. I looked
high and low for work, but none was to
be found. At one time things looked so
black for us all that I was desperate. I
thought of suicide, and then I remem-
bered my little children, who needed me.”
C] In Knoxville, Tenn., two policemen
recently arrested a young white woman
of twenty-two who was living with a
colored man.
<3 In Miami, Fla., the white people are
alarmed because the colored settlement
is growing so fast. It is “encroach-
ing” on the whites.
*3 A woman at Allentown, Pa., is seek-
ing a divorce because she has discovered
her husband is colored. A white Chi-
cago bartender has married a colored
widow, while a colored man, after being
refused by several ministers, has suc-
ceeded in marrying a white girl at Be-
loit, Wis.
•3 The superintendent of the County
Hospital of Los Angeles, Cal., has asked
the supervisors to adopt a policy as to
whether or not they will admit Negro
women to the nurses’ training school. Dr.
Whitman declared that it had been
reported to him that a young Negro
woman had been denied admittance to
the school. The question was taken
under consideration by the board and
will be carefully studied before a decision
is rendered.
At Madison, Wis., the Rev. C. H.
Thomas and the trustees of the African
Methodist Church have addressed an ap-
peal to the public, setting forth that on
account of race prejudice the pastor is
unable to rent a residence for himself
and family. They will call upon the
public for aid to enable them to buy a
parsonage.
<3 Near Jacksonville, Fla., a Negro brick
mason was made foreman. Several of the
white bricklayers stopped work, but the
job is still going ahead.
<3 The question of providing amusements
for colored people or allowing them the
same rights of other citizens in places of
amusements continually comes to the
fore.
In Montgomery, Ala., a white man was
about to open a moving-picture show for
colored people, but was forbidden to by
the city authorities on the ground that
it was on one of the main streets.
In Springfield, 111., and Perth Amboy,
N. J., and Paterson, N. J., Negroes are
protesting against the color line in pic-
ture shows and cafes.
In New York City the question of the
rights of colored people in theatres is
again being taken to court.
<3 The Domestic Workers’ Union of
Auckland, New Zealand, recently pro-
tested strongly against the unfair com-
petition involved by the practice of a
system of importing colored boys into
the dominion for domestic service. The
Ministers of Labor stated in the House
of Representatives that inquiries will be
made into the matter, and if it is found
that the importation of this class of labor
is likely to affect New Zealand workers,
steps will be taken with a view to stop-
ping the practice.
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
229
EDUCATION.
Charles M. Melden has been inaugu-
rated president of New Orleans Univer-
sity. A feature of the inauguration was
the presence of the presidents of the
schools of the Freedmen’s Aid Society.
Tulane University was also represented,
and their representative, Dr. B. V. L.
Dixon, asserted that education was for all
the people and that no one had the right
to deprive or deny to anyone the enjoy-
ment of this blessing; that it was better
for all that all the people be educated.
Among the others who made addresses
were James H. Dillard, agent of the
Slater Fund; Dr. Robert E. Jones, edi-
tor of the Southwestern Advocate, and
Dr. M. C. B. Mason, secretary of the
Freedmen’s Aid Society. In his address
Dr. Melden took occasion to remark
that a prominent colored educator went
too far when he advised the Negro to
"get money, get property, and after that
you will have time enough for religion
and culture.” Dr. Melden said that such
an emphasis upon material things con-
stitutes a peril.
<3 Wichita, Kan., is erecting a new
school for colored children at a cost of
$29,000. It will have a large auditorium
and manual training and domestic sci-
ence.
*3 Mr. W. J. Edwards, principal of Snow
Hill Institute, writes that in Wilcox
County, Ala., (according to the re-
port of the State Superintendent of
Public Instruction for 1910) there are
10,758 Negro children of school age and
2,000	white children. The school ex-
penditure in Wilcox County for 1910
was $33,952.45. of which $3,339.70 was
spent on the 10,758 Negro children and
$30,612.75 was spent on the 2,000 white
children. The expenditure for Negro
children was, therefore, less than 32
cents per capita; for white children,
about $15.30 per capita. In the seven
counties surrounding and touching Wil-
cox County there are, according to the
same report, 64.2S5 Negro children of
school age. for whom $47,719.24 was
appropriated in 1910. In these same
counties there are 21,S41 white children
of school age. who receive $224,842.32.
The tabulated report below indicates
the distribution of this money:
Negro Children White Children
Counties	Pop. Appor. Pop. Appor.
Monioe .................. 5.107	$3.605.OS	3.56S	$24,309.12
Dallas ................. 15.S60	14.567.10	2.629	45.734.58
Lowndes ................ 11.633	8.694.94	1.304	28,371.20
Butler .................. 6.919	1.S00.00	5.038	34.000.00
Clarke .................. 6.051	4.584.12	4.323	27,706.06
Marengo ................ 10,060	3.945.50	2.742	39,380.54
Perry ................... 9.452	7,522.50	2.239	25.340.54
64.2S5 $17,719.24 21.S13 $214.S42.32
SOCIAL UPLIFT.
The North Carolina Mutual. and
Provident Association, a colored insur-
ance company, whose headquarters are
at Durham, N. C., is doing a business
of $260,000 a year and has not a^singlc
unpaid claim.
CjJ Delegate Pegg. the colored city sealer
of weights and measures of Omaha,
Neb., was unanimously elected sergeant-
at-arms of the Seventh Annual Confer-
ence of Weights and Measures of the
United States, which took place at the
Hotel Raleigh, Washington, D. C.
CJ In the Graded Sunday School Teach-
ers’ Union of all the churches of Buffalo,
N. Y., there are three educational
leaders of the section groups, of whom
Mrs. Mary B. Talbert, a colored woman,
is one. Mrs. Talbert is a member of
the Advisory Board of the N. A. A. C. P.
CJ The Hubbard Hospital, a part of
Meharry Medical College, has been
given $10,000 by Andrew Carnegie.
CJ Matthew Henson has published his
travels in a volume entitled “A Negro
Explorer at the North Pole.”
<3 Senator Root, from the Committee on
Expositions, has reported favorably to
the Senate a bill to appropriate $250,000
for the Negro exposition celebrating the
emancipation.
CJ The Southern Commercial Congress,
which meets at Nashville, Tenn., this
month, will have among its conferences
one on Negro education, under W. D.
Weatherford, a white Y. M. C. A. sec-
retary who has made some study of the
colored people.
<3 The 142d anniversary of the death of
Crispus Attucks was observed by the
colored people of Cambridge.
Figures from 14S of the 600 colored
women’s clubs in the land reported, in
1910. $57,387 collected during the year;
$120,950 in club property; 3.664 mem-
bers; and the taxable property owned
by the club members amounted to
$18,776,S60.
<3 Mr. Booker T. Washington and
friends have been in the State of Florida
making speeches.
<J The Senate of the State of New Jersey
has passed a bill carrying an appro-
priation of $20,000 to aid in the celebra-
tion of the fiftieth anniversary of eman-
cipation. It is thought that the bill will
eventually become a law.
CJ The Flanner Guild, a social settle-
ment in Indianapolis for colored people,
has lost its white donor and chief pro-
moter, Mr. F. B. Flanner, who commit-
ted suicide recently. It is expected that
the work of the guild will be continued.
C| A Colored Women’s Civic Club, with
125 members, has been formed in In-
dianapolis.
CJ The Young Men’s Business League
of Brooklyn, N. Y., under its president,
230
THE CRISIS
Mr. A. J. Loring, is pushing out in
many lines of business endeavor. Among
other things they arc agents of The
Crisis.
Cj At a mass meeting in Zion Baptist
Church, Philadelphia, lynch law was
attacked and Mr. Booker T. Washing-
ton severely criticised. Mr. John E.
Milholland and Dr. W. A. Sinclair
spoke.
<3 The twenty-fourth annual conference
of the Teachers’ and School Improve-
ment League of Virginia has been held
at Lynchburg, Va. They reported that
local, county and city leagues number
more than 600 and have raised over
$15,000 during the year to help the
colored school system.
<3 A report from Galveston states that
the 8.000 colored people there have four
public schools, representing $50,000, own
250 homes valued at $200,000 and fifteen
churches valued at $120,000. There are
100 colored people engaged in business
and eight organizations owning real
estate. There are 1.500 colored steve-
dores during the busy season. The
total wealth represented by the colored
people is estimated at $600,000.
<J A delegation of Negro clergymen
called upon the board of education of
Orange, N. J., to ask that there be no
discrimination in the appointment of
teachers on account of color.
CJ Solomon Phillips, of Uniontown, Pa.,
has left a part of his estate to Tuskegee
Institute.
<]I A company of Negroes at Austin,
Tex., has secured control of real estate
to the amount of $100,000. They pro-
pose to operate a banking and trust
company.
Cj Mrs. Alice M. Dismukes, who has
charge of the laundry at Fisk Univer-
sity and is also a graduate of the nor-
mal department, has given her accumu-
lated wages, amounting to $1,000,
toward the erection of a building for
the musical department of the institu-
tion.
CJ J. P. Bond, of Birmingham, Ala., has
established the Southern Business Col-
lege, which has special courses in short-
hand, typewriting and general business
lines.
CHURCH.
There is continued unrest among the
colored membership of the M. E.
Church. The colored bishop Scott is
leading a movement looking toward the
erection of a new church of the colored
members exclusively. Others are oppos-
ing this. But they, on the other hand,
are reviving the demand for Negro
bishops, and without a doubt there is
going to be some sharp discussion at
the coming general conference. There
are 325,000 colored members, for whom
two bishops are asked.
<3 South Carolina is becoming the cen-
ter of a spirited debate on the question
of electing an Episcopal suffragan
bishop. Bishop Guerry has raised
funds for the support of such a bishop,
but he is meeting considerable opposi-
tion.
CJ The semi-annual session of the bish-
ops of the A. M. E. Church has been
held in Baltimore, under the presidency
of Bishop Turner.
<3 Cardinals Gibbons and Farley and
Archbishop Prendergast have issued an
appeal for Negro and Indian missions.
They refer to Negroes as “but recently
raised from slavery and savagery with
childlike minds, lacking that develop-
ment which other races have had for
centuries!’’
ECONOMICS.
Two young colored men, born in
Texas but bred in California, have
invented an electrical device for con-
trolling traffic in congested districts.
The invention takes the appearance of
a four-sided railroad semaphore. It is
electrically operated and obviates the
necessity of the crossing policeman
standing in the middle of the street.
Instead, he may stand on any one of
the corners and by pressing a button
sound the signal and change the signs.
The inventors are C. R. Bailey and
W. O. Warren.
CJ A colored school in Greenville
County, S. C., has a curious • little local
extension fund by which the patrons
have purchased a few acres of land, and
this is cultivated and the profits turned
over to the school. In the past fall they
raised six bales of cotton. This extra
income helps them to pay a higher sal-
ary to the teacher and consequently gets
a better teacher.
CJ The Pythians Saving and Loan Asso-
ciation, capitalized at $100,000, filed
articles of incorporation at Indianapolis
last month.
PERSONAL.
The Eighth Ward Settlement, at 922
Locust Street, Philadelphia, which rep-
resents an outlay of $25,000 and requires
$6,000 a year, is supported by a white
philanthropist, W. W. Frazier, and is
doing a most important and interesting
work.
John B. Parker, a pioneer, and one
of the best-known colored citizens of
Spokane, Wash., has recently died. He
went to Spokane in 1881.
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
231
<3 Mr. James Elliot, a wealthy citizen
of Binghamton, has recently died at the
age of 101 years. He made consider-
able money through real estate.
<3 Mr. C. D. McClelland, who has a suc-
cessful plumbing and gas-fitting business
at 240 East 33d Street, Chicago, is the
first Negro master plumber to pass the
examiners of plumbers in the State of
Illinois.
<3 Prof. Thomas M. Gregory has been
restored to his position at Howard Uni-
versity. Mr. Gregory was rather sum-
marily dismissed for the alleged crime
of drinking a glass of beer in public,
but wiser counsels prevailed and after
some delay justice has been done.
<3 Major Taylor, the celebrated bicycle
racer, has invented a metal spring tire
which, he says, will revolutionize the
commercial truck tire business.
<3 Miss Dorothy Coates, of Spokane,
Wash., has the distinction of being the
first colored woman to he called for jury
duty in the United States.
<3 A recent pronouncement on racial
intermixture says:
“There is as much an American type
to-day as there is an English type or a
French type. The population of the
United States is no more mixed than
any of the great European nations, with
the possible exception of the Scandi-
navians—Norway and Sweden.
“Every race that ever amounted to
anything was always mixed and there-
fore always progressing. Any nation
which shuts itself up and receives noth-
ing from the outside world must per-
force degenerate.
“When many races meet the tendency
is for the community as a whole to shed
off the defects and retain the good
qualities of its component parts.
“If you were to take a hundred men
of half a dozen different races, shave
their heads and color them all dead
black, it would be impossible even for
an expert to pick them out correctly. In
75 per cent, of the cases you could not
tell to what race they belonged.”
<3 At the annual meeting of the Women’s
Home Missionary Society, of the Metho-
dist Episcopal Church, recently held at
Wichita, Kan., Miss Ida R. Cummings
of Baltimore was made reserve field
secretary for young people’s work.
‘Miss Cummings will make the anni-
versary address for the society at the
Washington and Delaware conference.
<3 Miss May Belcher, who has been asso-
ciated with the Lucy Laney School at
Augusta, Ga., for several years, spent the
month of December in the Y. W. C. A.
Training Center at New York City, and
has gone to fill the secretaryship in the
association recently organized at St.
Louis.
ART.
The unveiling of a life-size portrait of
Wendell Phillips took place March 5 at
the Wendell Phillips School in Boston,
Mass. Mr. Edwin D. Mead and Darius
Cobb, artist, addressed the pupils at the
presentation services. The artist is
Cloyd Boykin, a Virginian by birth, and
a graduate from Hampton Institute. The
painting, which was made from a little
wood-cut print, has attracted much
attention by its faithful likeness and is
considered a remarkable piece of work,
as the painter has never had the advan-
tage of art training.
Mr. Boykin came to Boston a year
ago with the hope that he might find
opportunity for study. The unusual
talent, as shown in the Phillips paint-
ing, has attracted the notice of artists
and has won for him the interest of
friends who have made it possible for
him to enter the art school connected
with the Boston Museum of Fine Arts,
where he is receiving instruction under
the best art instructors of Boston.
<3 Mr. Carl R. Diton, pianist, of Phila-
delphia, Pa., has accepted a position as
teacher of music at Payne College,
Augusta, Ga.
CJ Mrs. Carrie W. Clifford has recently
been appointed instructor in the depart-
ment of vocal expression, connected
with the Washington Conservatory of
Music at Washington, D. C. Mrs. Clif-
ford is honorary president of the Ohio
Federation of Women's Clubs.
Cf Mr. Kemper Harrold, formerly
orchestral conductor and pianist of Chi-
cago, III., has been appointed teacher
of piano at the Atlanta Baptist College,
Atlanta, Ga.
<3 On February 19, in Chicago, 111., the
Choral Study Club, Mr. Pedro T. Tins-
ley, conductor, gave their thirty-fifth
concert, presenting the “Lauda Sion," by
Mendelssohn, and “The Seven Last
Words of Christ.” by Th. DuBois. The
soloists were Cora Spriggs, soprano;
Diana Hackley, contralto; Wm. H.
Hackney, tenor, and T. Theodore Tay-
lor, baritone. The accompanists were
Gertrude Jackson and Mrs. Pelagie
Blair.
In 1900 the Choral Study Club was
organized under the leadership of Pedro
T.	Tinsley, who, by his perseverance,
uncompromising artistic. ideals and
exceptional ability for instructing and
directing a chorus, has brought the club
to a high place among choral organiza-
tions.
The work of the chorus is marked by
clarity, of tone, clear annunciation and
precision of attack and a remarkable
sensitiveness to musical expression.
The object of the organization is to
maintain a chorus for the study and per-
formance of modern works, as well as
232
THE CRISIS
to present the great choral compositions
of the best masters, assisted by promi-
nent soloists of the race.
Cj The Pre-Lentcn Recital and Assem-
bly, which is given annually in New
York City under the management of
Walter F. Craig, was held February 15
at Palm Garden. The artists were
Mme. Octave Dishman, soprano; Mr. A.
W. Smith, tenor; Mr. J. T. Butler, reader,
and Mr. H. Emanuel, violinist. Mr.
Melville Charlton was the accompanist.
MISCELLANEOUS.
Cases of alleged human sacrifice still
come up occasionally in the Indian crim-
inal courts, and one of them, just ended,
has been causing an unusual amount of
interest in the United Provinces.
A young girl, gathering firewood in a
wood in the Mirzapur district, was
struck down with a stick by a man who
was digging earth. Her companions
having run off to the village in terror,
the man took up the girl, pushed her
into the pit he had been digging and
then filled in the pit and jumped upon
the earth. He was seen by villagers
who came seeking the child to be bran-
dishing a stick and crying, “Hail, Maha-
vir; hail Black Goddess; I offer you a
sacrifice!”
<3 Mr. J. Pierpont Morgan has just paid
a large sum, reported in some cases as
high as $400,000, for fifty-seven volumes
on the rise of the black Christians in
North Africa, called the Copts.
<3 The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania
has refused to grant a change of venue
for the trial of the Coatesville lynchers.
They will, therefore, be tried at home,
but a large body of evidence has been
obtained and a strong fight will be made
for a conviction.
AFRICA.
The High Court in the Union of South
Africa has recently construed the Cape
Town school board act of 1905 to mean
that a child who has a mixture of Euro-
pean and African blood is excluded from
the schools maintained for the whites.
The chief justice in announcing the de-
cision said that it was regrettable that
there should be a social chasm between
the races, but it undoubtedly existed and
affected legislation throughout South
Africa.
•1 The total population of the South
African Union is 5,379,000, of whom only
1.275.000	are of European stock. The
number of the latter, seven years ago.
was 1,116,806; Natal has gained only
1,473, and the Cape only 3,436; the Trans-
vaal and the Orange River Colony show
gains of 32,756 and 123,554, respectively.
The male white population in Natal and
Cape Colony has fallen off more than
20.000	in the seven years, and the fe-
male white population has increased
more than 25,000. Throughout the Union
as a whole the gain in white population
in the seven years was fourteen per cent.,
while the native population has increased
566,000, or sixteen per cent.
<jj The recent arrival at Tripoli of a con-
tingent of the black troops from Eritrea
was made the occasion of warm demon-
strations of welcome by the Italian
forces. The Eritrean askaris, with-some
hundred camel drivers, paraded before
the Italian commander, General Frugoni,
and performed a kind of fantasia, which
seems to have much impressed the
native population. General Frugoni made
a speech recalling the gallantry and
loyalty the newcomers had already
shown when fighting under the Italian
flag, and expressing the pleasure experi-
AN OFFICIAL GARDEN PABTY, FREETOWN, SIERRA LEONE
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
233
cnced by his soldiers in welcoming them
as comrades. It is hoped that the pres-
ence of these African Mussulmans in the
Italian army may have a conciliatory
effect on the Arabs and persuade them
of the possibility of terms of good fel-
lowship with the Italian invader.
<3 One of the most prosperous countries
in West Africa is British Nigeria. The
population of Southern Nigeria is
7,836,189. The progress and develop-
ment of Southern Nigeria within the
last decade have been little short of
phenomenal. The surest way of gaug-
ing this development is through the
medium of the imports and exports of
the colony. According to the latest
reports, the total value of both imports
and exports in 1910 was £11.790,000,
exceeding that of any previous year,
even the record year, 1909, when the
figures reached the then unprecedented
amount of £9,540,000. This volume of
trade is nearly double what it was seven
years ago. when, in 1904, it amounted to
only £4.939.000. The revenue now ex-
ceeds £1.900.000. Of the total value of
exports which, excluding specie and
goods in transit, amounted in 1910 to
£5,258.000, palm produce constituted
four-fifths. The exports of palm oil,
which amounted to £1,742,000, and palm
kernels £2,451,000, greatly exceeded,
both in value and quantity, the record
figures of 1909.
Statements as to progress of the
Negro tribes around Benito, Africa, are
made by a Presbyterian missionary.
“These people," he said, “gave a little
more than $S,000 in gold, American
money, for education last year. When
I began work in Africa ten years ago
there was no self-supporting work at all
in this district. Now we have fifteen out
of our sixteen churches that look after
their own work, and one of them is what
we call self-propagating—that is, it has a
missionary of its own ministering to
another tribe. I have seen the number of
schools increase from seven to eighty-
three. The natives themselves will put
up a building and erect a house for the
teacher, paying him also a Little salary,
so that all we have to do is to continue
the school. The wages of the laboring
man are 10 cents a day, yet this year the
grand total of their contributions in our
district has been $10,087.04."
CRIME.
The record of lynchings since our last
account is as follows:
At Chattanooga, Tenn., three colored
men, charged with killing a special offi-
cer, were taken from the officer at the
courthouse, beaten to death -and their
bodies riddled with bullets.
At Marshall, Tex., a colored man and
a colored woman were lynched because
of alleged complicity in the killirxg of a
white man by another Negro.
At Memphis, Tenn., a mob of twenty
citizens lynched a colored man for an
alleged attempt to assault a girl.
At Starkville, Miss., a Negro was
lynched for an alleged assault upon a
woman.
At Paducah, Ky., a Negro mortally
wounded a clerk in a country store and
being pursued by a mob committed sui-
cide.
CJ The trial of the Texans who lynched
a Mexican is being carried on in
Georgetown, Tex.
<1 Judge Dicker, of the Harrison Street
Station. Chicago, said recently: “I have
reached the conclusion that the Negroes
are less to blame than are the condi-
tions which surround them. It speaks
well for the Negroes of Chicago that so
many lead honest lives in the face of
hardships and temptation. In the
months when work is scarce Negroes
have a harder time than any other mem-
bers of the working class, because they
are barred absolutely from so many
kinds of employment open to the white
workers. This condition costs the tax-
payers of Cook County more than $100,-
000 a year directly.* Ten per cent, of
the prisoners at the Bridewell are Ne-
groes and the maintenance of this num-
ber of prisoners is an expense of large
proportions."
Rev. Charles P. Tincker testifies as
follows: “Justice to the Negroes of our
prisons in New York County, particu-
larly the Tombs, or City Prison, and in
the Blackwell’s Island penitentiary,
where I am chaplain, compels me to
say that there can be no doubt about
the superior behavior of these men
while behind the bars.
“'One of the conclusions I have
reached as a result of my experience
with the prisoners is that the Negro is
not. as a rule, an habitual criminal. He
does not go out of prison, as so many
of the whites do, prepared to commit
another crime, and interested only in the
prospect that it will be of sufficient pro-
portions to atone for the punishment
that he has received. It is axiomatic
among prison workers that the Negro
prisoner can be reformed. He may,
after he leaves prison, commit another
crime; but on investigation it will be
found that even this second offense is
not the outcome of deliberate planning.
It is more often due to anger, passion,
or the circumstances under which he is
living."
<3 Gov. Hadley, of Missouri, has par-
doned 507 convicts. A large number of
these are colored men, and the reason
for the pardon is unjust sentences.
MEN or THE
MONTH
..ffLATIfrtrfVUl
DR. CHARLES V. ROMAN.
Charles Victor Roman was born in
Williamsport, Pa., July 4, 1864. I~Ie was
educated in the public schools of Can-
ada, began his medical training at the
Ontario College of Physicians and Sur-
geons, and finished it at Meharry Medi-
cal College. After several years’ prac-
tice he began to specialize in diseases of
the eye, ear, nose and throat. He after-
ward took the post course at the Royal
London Ophthalmic Plospital and the Cen-
tral London Nose, Throat and Ear Hos-
pital. The work, however, which has
brought him most to the notice of
Americans is his editorship of the really
admirable Journal of the National Medi-
cal Association. This important publi-
cation, issued by the colored physicians,
is well printed and contains many excel-
lent articles. Dr. Roman has been
spoken of as the next editor of the A.
M.	E. Church Review. We trust, how-
ever, that he will not be tempted to
leave his professional work for other
fields.
DAVID MANNES.
Years ago a young colored boy
named Douglass went to Europe and
studied the violin under the celebrated
Rapoldi, a pupil of the master Spohr.
Pie returned to America; but what was
there in America for a colored man who
knew music and who knew it better than
his white contemporaries? Pie could do
little, but one thing he did do which
bore fruit. He saw a little white boy
trying to teach himself to play the
fiddle. He taught this little boy and
the boy is now David Mannes, director
of the New York Music School Settle-
ment. Is it not fitting that David
Mannes should be the prime mover in
the establishment of a music school for
Negroes now conducted in this city , by
David Irwin Martin?
BASKETBALL VICTORS.
The increase of interest among young
colored people in athletics is one of the
best signs of our time. One of the chief
DAVID MANNES
MEN OF THE MONTH
235
BASKETBALL TEAM OF M STREET HIGH SCHOOL, WASHINGTON, D. C.
Top Row—E. C. Williams, principal; Ralph Smith. E. B. Henderson. Physical Director. Middle
Row—Kelly Miller. ,lr.. Fred. Randall. J. K. Rector. Harold Tyler. Bottom Row—
Wm. Hughes, Vernon Green. Joseph Holland.
centers of this interest is the city of
Washington. We are glad this month
to present the pictures of the winning
M Street High School basketball team
in the Washington series. The team
won three straight games and lost none,
being thus successful over Howard
Academy, the Commercial High School
and the Armstrong Technical High
School. Principal Williams and Direc-
tor Henderson deserve credit for the
personal encouragement which they are
giving to this kind of work. Or the
grammar-school teams in the District of
Columbia, the Garrison School were
champions in the lightweight class and
the Stevens School in the heavyweight
class.
IN GOD’S GARDENS.
O mist-blown Lily of the North,
A-bending southward in thy bloom,
And bringing beauty silver sown
And pale blue radiance of snows—
Lo! sense its sleep-sown subtle breath.
Where wheel in passioned whirl above
All lingering, luring love'of love—
All perfume born of dole and death.
O fair white Lily, bowing low,
Above the dream-swept poppy’s mouth.
Athwart the black and crimson South—
Why dost thou fear—why dost thou
fear?
Cold ghost-wreathed Lily of the North,
When once thy dawning darkens there,
Come then with sunlight-sifted hair
And seek the haunting heaven of Night.
shadows whirled,
dim swathe the
Where, over moon-mad
The star-tanned mists
In phantasy to dream and die
A wild sweet wedding ot the V\ orld.
W. E. B. D.
' O P I N ION)
LAW AND LAWYERS.
Attorney-General Wickersham has
been the object of several calumnies with
regard to his attitude toward his col-
ored assistant. First he was said bit-
terly to oppose the appointment. Then
there was a tale of social difficulties
between Mrs. Wickersham and Mrs.
Lewis—a lie out of whole cloth, since
Mrs. Lewis is living in France for the
purpose of educating her children. Fin-
ally. however, the Attorney-General has
made his attitude so plain that he who
runs may read.
The situation grew out of Mr. Lewis’s
election to the American Bar Associa-
tion. As Mr. Wickersham says in a
public letter:
“The case, then, in a nutshell, is this:
The name of Mr. Lewis was recom-
mended to the executive committee by
the local committee. The members of
the latter committee knew perfectly well
that he was colored. They knew also
that he had been appointed an Assistant
Attorney-General of the United States.
If the members of the executive com-
mittee did not know these facts, it was
because they made no independent
investigation, but accepted as conclu-
sive the recommendation of the local
committee. You, as secretary, addressed
to Mr. Lewis an invitation to join the
association. He signified his willingness
to do so. The executive committee
thereupon elected him a member. He
paid his dues. Now—six months later—
an executive committee, one-third of
whose membership has changed since
Mr. Lewis was elected, without the
faintest shadow of authority in the con-
stitution or by-laws of the association,
assumes by its vote to cancel the elec-
tion and to place Mr. Lewis’s name on
the list of persons proposed for member-
ship. This action is taken at the
instance of certain of your members
who object to the membership of a col-
ored man in the association. There
being nothing in the constitution or by-
laws of the association to limit its mem-
bership to white persons, they, never-
theless, arrogate to themselves the
power to cancel a previous election had
in conformity with the organic law of
the association, because the person so
elected is not white, and to remit any
discussion of the question to the next
annual meeting of the association next
summer, meantime depriving Mr. Lewis
of all rights as a member. In the face
of such outrageous action, Mr. Lewis
can only appeal to the body of members
of the association and invoke their sense
of fairness to protest effectively against
the unconstitutional and unauthorized
proceedings of the executive committee.
Neither he nor I can believe that the
action of the committee will be
approved by any considerable number
of the members of the bar who consti-
tute the association.”
The president of the American Bar
Association, Mr. S. S. Gregory, of Chi-
cago, replies, in part, as follows:
“Every effort was made to represent
the matter to Mr. Lewis in such a way
as to induce him to relieve the situation
by retiring voluntarily, and it was hoped
at one time that this had been accom-
plished. This accounts for the delay
referred to by the Attorney-General.
“Finally, after due notice to Mr.
Lewis, and after he had declined to
appear before the committee, and did
not, in fact, appear nor send any repre-
sentative, the members of the commit-
tee, after the most careful consideration,
took the action indicated by their reso-
lution of January 4.
“Notwithstanding all efforts to raise
an issue not involved, the fact remains
that Mr. Lewis was elected to member-
ship in the association under a misap-
prehension; and he now insists on retain-
ing the advantages of an election thus
obtained.
“It would seem as if the proper time
to raise this question would be when the
report of the executive committee comes
before the association, and that this
effort thus to recall the decision of the
committee is to this extent premature.
But of this each member is, no doubt,
quite competent to judge.
“I sincerely regret that this contro-
versy has arisen. The members of the
committee acted according to their best
judgment, without conscious prejudice
and in an honest effort to reach a right
conclusion.”
The case has been widely commented
on. From the North has come either
silence or disapproval of the course of
OPINION
237
the committee. The Lynn Item calls it
“pitiful prejudice.” “If the executive
committee is sustained, the association
will proclaim itself as un-American.
There ought to be more men in the
membership of the calibre of that emi-
nent lawyer and noble man, John A.
Andrew, who said: ‘I know not what
record of sin awaits me in the other
world. But this I know: that I was
never mean enough to despise any man
because he was ignorant, or because he
was poor, or because he was black.’ ”
The East St. Louis Journal: “Here is
a display of narrowness that is particu-
larly disgusting. Those who are respon-
sible for it try to justify their action by
asserting that the American Bar Associ-
ation is a social body. That is ridiculous.
The association is clearly professional in
its character. In any event, however, a
man of ability, education and culture like
Assistant Attorney-General Lewis be-
longs in the society by right of intel-
lect. On his personal and professional
merits he was elected a member. To
cast him out because of his color was to
offer an insult to manhood regardless of
color.”
The Boston Journal brings out an in-
teresting point: “The ways of Providence
are mysterious, but there is something
ironical in the manner in which certain
things work themselves out. Here is W.
H. Lewis, a Negro. Assistant Attorney-
General of the United States, regularly
chosen a member of the American Bar
Association, a group of gentlemen who
are sworn officers of the law among
other things, illegally cast out of that
association to the detriment of the sense
and administration of justice. Judged
by every decent standard of right, Mr.
Lewis should be promptly reinstated,
and we have no doubt this will be done.
But what makes this action more signifi-
cant is that Mr. Lewis has always been
one of those Negroes who have coun-
seled their fellow Negroes to be mode-
rate in the insistence upon their politi-
cal rights.”
The Des Moines Capital exclaims: “In
heaven’s name what kind of a record are
we making if less than half a century
after the martyr’s death of Abraham Lin-
coln we are going to throw every pos-
sible obstacle in the way of a man’s
progress, mock his ambitions and crush
his hopes—for no other reason than
because his skin is black?”
The New York Evening Post adds:
“Attorney-General Wickersham has done
a manly and a useful thing in protesting
so vigorously against the action of the
executive committee of the American
Bar Association, which has voted to
exclude from membership in the Asso-
ciation Assistant Attorney-General
William H. Lewis, on the ground that
Mr. Lewis is a Negro. Mr. Wickersham
speaks of the committee’s ‘outrageous’
action. It is difficult to say whether it
is the outrageous injustice or the out-
rageous stupidity of such conduct that
stands out most conspicuously.”
The Chicago Record-Herald says: “To
the Record-Herald the whole affair is
most astonishing. The excuse that the
Bar Association is a social organization
and entitled to exclude any element for
any reason whatever is lame and far-
fetched. The association discusses high
questions of law and legal ethics. It
professes to stand for high principles and
noble purposes. The exclusion of edu-
cated, cultured, able and honorable law-
yers on account of their race or color
is an exhibition of bigotry and stupid
prejudice that causes one to hang his
head in shame.”
The Chicago News asserts that:
“There can be no hope that any good
thing will come out of the organization
until it learns to act in accordance with
the essential principles of justice.”
The Southern lawyers, however, seem
to feel pretty gay. Attorney Lancaster
of Chattanooga writes: “The presump-
tuous interference with the inward
affairs of the American Bar Association
on the part of the Attorney-General in
his official capacity was done for political
purposes and that only.” Mr. Lancaster
further stated in his letter that while he
did not care particularly about the elec-
tion of Lewis, at the same time he
thought that no man without self-respect
should be a member of the American
Bar Association, and that if Lewis
insisted on being a member after he had
been elected under false pretenses and
after he was shown that he was not
wanted, he was not fit to be a member
of the Bar Association or any other
association of professional men.
Much more diverting is the reply* of
Burton Smith, of Atlanta, brother of
Hoke Smith, known to fame. He writes
the Attorney-General of the United
States:	“I had believed that you
thought the primary object of the Amer-
ican Bar Association was social equality
for the Negro and renomination for
President Taft. I am delighted to know
that the Attorney-General of the
United States is not perverting his office
and disgracing his race. I say ‘disgrac-
ing his race’ because I take it for
granted you belong to the white race.”
Such gentle inuendo is common in
the South, because when tossed in a mis-
cellaneous Southern crowd it’s apt to hit
—somebody. The comedy—or tragedy
—of the situation is further emphasized
by the fact that Mr. Lewis is the son of
a member of one of the first white fam-
ilies of Virginia, and probably not one
member of the association out of ten
would know he was colored if they saw
him.
238
THE CRISIS
LYNCHING.
The Sacramento (Cal.) Bcc says:
“Negro lynchings create less and less
comment as they grow commoner in the
South. Mobs have spent their fury even
on two black women recently, most
revoltingly, too, without arousing more
than faint expressions of protest from
some newspapers and scarcely any at all
from humanitarian societies.
“A year or so ago the lynchers paused
in their bloody work for awhile when a
country-wide protest became particularly
vehement and officers responded by
doing their duty. But relaxation in
criticism and indifference have brought
about a return to the old conditions.
“Those conditions are even worse than
they were before, since mobs are more
cruel and lawless than ever. This is
illustrated by the incident of the mur-
der of three Negroes in a Southern court-
room one day last week.
“The wrong of these proceedings is
apparent. They are in defiance of divine
and human law and travesties on civil-
ization.
“The provocation is great in some
cases, no doubt, but to kill without trial,
without knowing whether the victim is
guilty or not, is just as bad, or worse.
“Another national protest is due.”
With regard to the lynching of the
colored woman in Texas, the Galveston
Ni-ws says that the reason for the lynch-
ing in this rase was that a man accused of
murder alleged that he got the gun from
111i- woman.
The lynching of three Negroes in Ten-
nessee lead-, the St. Louis Lost-Dispatch
to -.ay that “this affront to the court and
intolerable example of bloodthirstiness
should not be permitted to go unpun-
ished. The Negro offender is entitled
to all the rights accorded the white man
under the law. The court is entitled to
respect. The law must be obeyed. Jf
the authorities of Shelby County fail to
prosecute and punish the men who shot
down three prisoners already in the
shadow of the gallows, they will not
have done their duty to the State.”
On the other hand, a member of the
governor’s staff in South Carolina is
urging, through an editorial in the An-
derson Intelligencer, the lynching of
William Reid, who is in jail charged
with having entered the bedroom of a
white woman with the intention of
attacking her. This leads the Pittsburgh
Post to note that “this is a case in which
the law has a chance to assert itself.
Colonel Cheshire is a murderer running
loose in Anderson County in defiance of
law and order. The sheriff and all his
deputies are fully cognizant of the
offense, and it becomes their duty to
arrest this criminal and bring him to the
bar of justice.”
THE SUPERIOR RACE.
It is a curious study in psychology to
notice the calm judicial joy of papers
like the Charleston News and Courier
at the occurrence of any reactionary deed
tending to the degradation of races of
men or their alienation. Here is a case
in point:
“It is well known that England’s pol-
icy with inferior races has been the abso-
lute prohibition of social equality. In
South Africa, where the Negro question
threatened at one time to become as
acute as it ever was in the United States,
miscegenation is treated as a legal as
well as social outrage. No false sym-
pathy is permitted to deracialize the
Caucasian.
“The German Secretary of State for
the Colonies has issued an order pro-
hibiting marriage between whites and
natives in the Samoan Islands belonging
to Germany. For a generation German
officials have observed the effect of
mixed marriages in Samoa. They have
studied the matter scientifically, with
open minds. They have seen whites sink
to the level of their helpmates invariably.
That is the woeful fact about these inter-
racial marriages. The one of the higher
race inevitably seeks the level of the
lower race. In addition, it is observed,
the children of such unions seem to
inherit the bad qualities of both races,
the good qualities of neither.”
Once in a while, however, this calm
assurance is shaken by some compara-
tively insignificant thing. The Macon
Telegraph quotes the Savannah News
concerning two prisoners in Atlanta who
were asked to sign certain papers. A
young white man of 26 made his mark
while the Negro took a pen and wrote
his name. This the clerk of the court
pronounced “disgusting,” and the Tele-
graph calls it a “Startling Spectacle!”
“The Negroes are undoubtedly more
earnestly desirous to take advantage of
public-school privileges than are large
numbers of whites. Even if there were
no other arguments in favor of compul-
sory education, this one alone would be
unanswerable.”
Again, the New Orleans Picayune, in a
long editorial on Weale’s demonstration
of the conflict of color, says:
“Weale’s alarm call to the white race
is based on the assumption that the
whites as whites are likely to be faced
by the colored races in solid array. He
calls attention to the fact that the
European nations are disunited and can-
not act harmoniously in either Asia or
Africa, and that they will be so hope-
lessly outnumbered in the near future
that even united action would leave their
position hazardous.
“But while a tremendous conflict
between the peoples of the Far East and
of the West is likely, and it will not be
OPINION
239
the first time that Europe was invaded
by Asiatics, as the Tartar conquests in
Russia and those of the Turks testify,
the invaders were not yellow men, but
whites; religions, if not race jealousies,
will be a great obstruction to any union
between the Mussulmans of India and
the Buddhists of China and the Shintos
of Japan. It will not be easy to bring
those diverse races and religionists into
a great military combination for the
invasion of Europe. They may rally,
each race on its own soil, to drive out
and exterminate the whites among them,
but a vast army made up of a consolida-
tion of those races and religionists
marching across Asia to invade Europe
would be a condition difficult to accept
as a realization.
“In the meantime, whatever else may
occur, and it is certain that great nations
will arise and grow to vast power and
then fall to decay, as they have done
in the past, the white race will not only
survive, but remain at the summit of
development, a position it gained and
has occupied from a very early period in
human history."
So there, now!
LIGHT IN DARK PLACES.
Harper’s Weekly publishes a hearten-
ing echo from North Carolina:
“In Asheville, it seems, as in other
places, good people had been having
their attention drawn to the social evil
by finding it at their own doors—or at
any rate across the street or next door,
and even in the immediate neighborhood
of their churches and schools. Protests
were prompt and vigorous, and as they
came from people who knew how to
secure a hearing and whose wishes
counted with any city government, there
was comparatively little doubt of getting
action from the authorities. So far, so
good; but there happened to be one man
in Asheville, a minister, the Rev. R. F.
Campbell, to whom it occurred to inquire
where these disreputable establishments
were going when driven from reputable
quarters. He had no difficulty in discov-
ering that the mass of them were already
in the close neighborhood of the homes
and churches and schools of the so-
called Negro quarter of the town. They
were there, of course, in obedience to a
sort of law of the real-estate business,
but he wrote to the papers and con-
fessed that he, for one, could not look
upon the matter with an easy conscience
so long as the Negroes could not protect
themselves in this matter and most white
people could.
“It was not a subject about which
people like to rush into print or make
speeches, but Dr. Campbell very soon
found that the better people of his own
race felt just as he did, and also acknowl-
edged their responsibility; and wi*h good
support he set about finding a remedy.
For once our Anglo-Saxon hypocrisy in
such matters made the remedy easy. It
appeared that the entire business was
illegal; that the control of it was prac-
tically lodged in the hands of one man
—the judge of the city police court; and
the judge was in sympathy with the
movement and not in the least afraid to
use his power. The Negro ministers
wanted to help, and did so with a simple
statement of the facts, addressed to the
white ministers, which these in turn pre-
sented to Judge Adams, and the judge
took such effective action that within a
week or two there was not left a single
‘social-evil’ establishment in sight of a
Negro church or school."
THE NEW YORK NEGRO REGI-
MENT.
The controversy about the Negro regi-
ment in New York is well summed up
by two editorials. The Syracuse Herald
declares that the regiment is not needed
and that, “without intending any reflec-
tion upon the colored race, the fact must
be recognized that our militiamen do not
associate with Negroes in any way; and
why, pray, should they be expected to
fellowship with them in the militia
organization of the State? But it is not
solely a matter of race prejudice, though
that aspect of the question cannot be
ignored. What concerns the public even
more is the probability that the plan for
a Negro regiment, if carried out, would
discourage the military spirit of our citi-
zen soldiers and weaken their pride in
the State organization." •
To this the Cleveland Plain Dealer
replies: “To a casual observer it would
seem that the question depends some-
what upon one’s conception of the pur-
pose of the National Guard. If it is
maintained primarily as a social organi-
zation, it is easily believable that the
admission of a Negro regiment would be
bad for the guard, since it would intro-
duce a fruitful source of friction and mis-
understanding.
“But if the guard is designed as a
fighting organization—if soldiers rather
than society eligibles are desired—it is
difficult to see how the establishment of
Negro regiments would be otherwise
than desirable. It is to the credit of
active colored citizens of New York that
they desire to see the establishment of
the'proposed new regiment."
Meantime the Republicans have killed
the bill by recommitting it.
LIGHT ON RURAL CONDITIONS.
The American Missionary, the organ
of the American Missionary Associa-
tion. publishes an extremely'interesting
article by Professor T. S. Inborden, a
240
THE CRISIS
colored man of Enfield, N. C., on the
vexed question of conditions among the
rural Negroes of the South:
“The matter of Negro migration to
the cities will be easily solved, if it can
be made possible for colored people to
buy small farms. In this community, in
Halifax and Edgecombe counties, there
are large farms being sold all the time.
They average in area two hundred to
two thousand acres. Negroes cannot
buy on such a large scale and expect
to pay cash. They need farms from
twenty-five to one hundred acres. Some
of them can pay cash for that size farm.
They need to buy on the larger scale
in communities where they can add to
their holdings from time to time. We
could locate a hundred prosperous
Negro farmers in five miles of the
Joseph. Keasbey Brick, Agricultural,
Industrial and Normal School, near
Enfield, N. C., within a year if we could
buy small farms with easy payments.
The farmers in this region, as a rule,
have large families and practically none
of their boys have the city fever.
“Put schools in these centers and put
in good teachers. Many schoolhouses
for political reasons have been moved
several miles from the Negro population,
which, of course, reduces the school
attendance and is a source of great dis-
couragement to the people who want to
educate their children. If Negroes can-
not get the good advantages in the com-
munity in which they live, they will
move to the cities and towns. This
is good sense. It is right.
“Good public roads will also help to
keep the best Negroes in the country.
Equality in the administration of the
laws will also help to retard the migra-
tion of the Negroes to the towns. Some
of the worst lawbreakers in certain
communities arc immune from arrest,
trial and punishment, while others are
snatched up for the most trivial offenses
and sent to the chain gang. The
ignorant know when there is an in-
equality in the enforcement of law as
well as the intelligent. They are un-
restful and resentful; this restlessness
and resentfulness permeate the society
in which they move. Hence, they go
direct to the cities and towns.
“I doubt seriously the frequent asser-
tion that if the majority of Negroes
owned their farms such ownership
would establish them in the good wishes
of their white friends. Every Negro
who owns his farm takes that much
labor, himself, wife ami children out
of the labor market. This reduces the
white man’s help, and with the large
plantations this reduction in labor
would retard seriously the Southern
farm output. Truly, they might bring
in foreign labor, but it will take many
years to adjust Southern conditions to
the exactions of foreign help. Certainly,
the men who have always had Negro
help would not, at once, submit to such
exactions.
“No, there is a better way. There
are thousands and thousands of acres of
land that are not in cultivation, and
are in possession of those who are
immune to the climate and who know
the conditions. These lands might be
cleared and ditched bv the Government
or by the State, but they will not be
kept clear until the small farmers get
hold of them and depend on them for
their living. Then they will be kept
cleared, ditched and cultivated.
“I was at the State Farm of North
Carolina some years ago and I think
I never saw such a fine farm with its
produce. I was told by the manager
that they could grow such crops only
because they could control their labor.
The large planter must control his labor
if he runs a thousand-acre farm eco-
nomically. This cannot be done unless
the State passes certain laws which will
enable large planters to do this. When
the State passes laws to enable farmers
to control their labor by certain con-
tracts which are unintelligible to the
ordinary laborer, it thwarts good gov-
ernment and engenders nothing but
hatred toward those who seek the exe-
cution of those laws. It creates dis-
content and tends to lawlessness on the
part of the laborer. Very large farms
cannot be run without an immense lot
of help, and where such arc thrown to-
gether, as they are on many of the big
farms, you may expect bad sanitation
and bad morals. This does not make
for agricultural progress nor will it keep
the Negro people from seeking the
cities.”
EDUCATION.
“With no vote must necessarily fol-
low no schools,” says the St. Louis
Advance (colored). “We cannot edu-
cate a people and keep them disfran-
chised. Schools do not promote slavery,
peonage or disfranchisement. No dis-
franchisement can be complete unless it
sinks in the same vortex of decitizenza-
tion, suffrage, schools and the proper
rights. The men who disfranchise the
Negro in the South do not mean to stop
with the destruction of his suffrage, but
also to restrict him in his education and
property franchises. This is not only a
matter of course, but is evident in the
reduction of the studies of the Negro
schools of Louisiana: in the crippling
of Negro schools in Virginia by a very
insufficient appropriation; in the short-
ening of the term of colored schools in
many of the counties of Maryland; in
legislation pending in Mississippi to
reduce the curriculum of Negro schools
to the crudest studies; in the general
OPINION
241
agitation to separate the school fund of
Southern States on a race basis. The
man must be blind who cannot see that
disfranchisement in the South finally
means nothing short of the demolition
of the entire Negro school system. It
is not pessimistic to say when a house
is on fire, and there is no effort to ex-
tinguish the flames, that the whole fabric
will be destroyed.”
<3 We believe the time has fully come
for the colored people of the State to
wake up on the school question and see
if some existing laws now operating to
the detriment of colored schools can-
not be changed.
We believe the law fixes the length
of the term of school for all white
schools throughout the State, but the
length of term for colored schools is
left entirely to the discretion of the
school commissioners of the several
counties. Now, this arrangement has
witnessed the cutting down of the
school term in many places to just a
few months.
Such treatment of our people is so
manifestly unfair that we feel it can be
changed if the work is gone at intelli-
gently and persistently. Why should the
State Law fix the length of the school
term for all others within our borders
and then leave the colored schools to
the mercy of school commissions, who
might, for various reasons, political and
otherwise, cut the Negro schools short?
—Afro-American Ledger.
A TRIBUTE.
About nineteen years ago I was em-
ployed on a German daily in Newark,
and given instruction to visit the
gambling places and write them up
for the Sunday edition. Among others,
I visited a resort frequented by Negroes.
I was the only white man—a super-
blond Northerner at that — in the
crowded hall. The poverty of some
women lurked through thin and torn rags
and from haggard faces and hungry
eyes. I was here confronted with a
sight strongly reminding me of the com-
munistic companionship of misery in
the catacombs. The thirsty and hungry
were fed by those who were more fortu-
nate. But there was present in their
midst a spirit of fellowship. Gloom at
first had hung over the whole room.
But one rough touch on the discordant
piano sufficed to awaken the joy of living.
I was elated with my experience and in-
stead of a denunciatory article my pen
brought forth a hosannah on the com-
munistic instincts of the race. The re-
sult was the severance of my connection
with that paper and a three months'
vagrancy in New York, until, after serv-
ing as dish washer and at other labor,
I found a place in a drug store.
Six years later I was the proprietor
of a drug store in Baltimore. My
porter, Walter, a talented musician, a
noble character, often had to walk two
or three blocks out of his way to avoid
the policeman’s club. His crime and that
of his family, lovable, clean and sober
people, consisted in the undeniable fact
that they had dark skins.
A Negro, tired and emaciated, on a
hot summer day, entered the store for a
glass of water. After he left, a white
man came in and requested us to break
the tumbler. Upon our refusal he de-
clared that his and other neighbors'
custom would be withdrawn from us.
Soon after I closed the shop and
returned to New York.
To-day, as nineteen years ago, I am
convinced that if a real leader should
emerge from this race and use the
latent greatness of the masses for co-
operative purposes, his endeavor would
culminate in the elevation to an eco-
nomically and socially useful power of
a people who now as a rule have to
maintain themselves with the crumbs o£
society.—F. TH. in the New York
World.
<J So we leave it to the South, and the
South denies education to the Negro, and
when he does a deed of darkness or
ignorance, burns him alive and gives
thanks for a “white civilization.”
Now, I know that this is not popular
talk and is not supposed to be well ad-
vised for the great movement of which
I am an humble supporter; but for once
I am going to have my say about it,
elections or no elections, Mississippi or
elsewhere; and the thing that is most on
my chest is this monstrous injustice of
providing the conditions that make evil
inevitable and then lynching the victims
of the conditions that we ourselves
create. So long as that is the case, I
should think that the hugest jest in the
world was the idea of sending American
missionaries to Burma or Rarotonga.
We ought to petition Burma and Raro-
tonga to send missionaries to us.
In the last twenty-five years, 2,458
colored men have been lynched in this
country, and in only a minority of the
cases has there been any allegation of
the crime that is viewed as offering the
sole excuse for this monstrous lawless-
ness.
I should think this fact alone would
give a missionary from Rarotonga reason
to believe that he had enough to do in
the United States.
Having prevented Negroes from ob-
taining education, the South proceeds to
denounce the Negro as ignorant and
shiftless, and is vastly indignant because
he does things that befit the state of
ignorance that the community decrees
for him.—Charles Edward Russell in the
Coming Nation.
242
THE CRISIS
q Mr. Sutton seems to think that the
Negroes should be educated and that the
South owes it to them to do it, as it
would make better citizens of them. I
differ very materially from Mr. Sutton.
♦	* * * *
But what	does	Mr.	Sutton	hope to	do
by educating these creatures? Does he
hope to make such characters as I have
mentioned? Or does he hope to elevate
them to a social equality with the white
man? If so, why did our Maker not
save him this trouble in the beginning?
If Mr. Sutton will go to the State prisons
and farms he will find a very large
majority of the inmates fairly educated,
and yet they are convicts. Why is this?
From my observation, education inflates
nine-tenths of them with arrogance and
bigotry, which destroys all tendency to
work and supplants it with a desire for
idleness, which begets crime.
Mr. Sutton says every well-informed
Southerner is willing to confess at least
some of the sins he committed in own-
ing slaves. I am a Southerner in the
fullest extent of the phrase and was an
owner of Negro property from infancy
to the close of the Civil War (thirty
years;, and I cannot recall a single
instance that 1 regret.—A. B. Nibbs in
the Houston (Tex.; Post.
The obligation of the Southern writers
to make a representation which should
accord with the theory of patriarchal
ownership was destructive of all vigor..
They were under some enfeebling limita-
tion as Landseer would have suffered
from had he been compelled to repre-
sent in every picture a theory of patriar-
chal government of dogs. Suppose Land-
seer had never been permitted to paint
a dog that was not happy. Suppose
he had never been able to paint a mourn-
ful or unfortunate dog. What a restraint
it would have been upon the liberty of
the artist. The Southern writers were
just as much impeded by the necessity
they were under never to paint a
Negro who was not laughing.—The
Independent.
A man and his wife had been light-
house keepers for twenty-six years. Just
now they had been shut off from the
mainland for some days and food and
supplies ran short. Forced to act, the
wife at last ventured ashore and was
kept by the weather conditions until
after dark. Approaching the lighthouse,
the unlighted lamp told of disaster with-
in, and the fears were confirmed when
the wife, with assistance summoned,
found the keeper dead, kneeling by the
bed as though in prayer. But the keeper's
wife rallied from the shock to hasten
to light the warning signal; and when
they took her long-time companion's
body ashore, she made no moan that her
lot was to remain alone to tend the light
that was to save life from danger.
And now the newspaper correspond-
ent in that section has called to mind
that in the whole twenty-six years of
their service the government has never
received any complaint of the manage-
ment of the light, and he writes that
“the keeper and his wife, although
Negroes, were esteemed by all who knew
them.”
Perhaps no higher tribute could have
been paid them than to say that, in a
State with a critical attitude toward the
Negro, these two were esteemed; but
the faithfulness they have always main-
tained and the courage and loyalty the
one left has now manifested are not to
be judged on the basis of color. That
phrase “although Negroes” was meant
to emphasize the praise. What it really
emphasizes is that qualities of character
know no race distinction.—New Bedford
Standard.
<1 One thing is certain, as this article
will demonstrate, and that is that there
is not much to choose between the East
and the West in this respect. Mis-
sionaries and self-complacent Europeans
and Americans declare that woman occu-
pies an exalted social position in the
West; that she is respected and
honored as man’s equal; that she
ennobles and purifies society by her pres-
ence; that she enjoys true freedom and
great opportunities for education, and
that she is immeasurably happier, clev-
erer and nobler in the West than in the
backward ignorant Asiatic countries.
All this talk is very fine and inspiring,
but it has only one small defect: it is
false.
******
I draw the veil over the darker
aspects of the question. The “social
evil,” a euphemism employed by refined
persons in talking of the degradation
of thousands of women through poverty
and the exigencies of the present mar-
riage system, is the product of these
institutions, on which Europe plumes
herself. Congresses meet to discuss the
“white-slave traffic,” which is an organ-
ized trade now as it was in the days
of Harounal-rashid or the Mahdi. Mod-
ern Europe is not a whit better in this
respect than Morocco or old Turkestan.
The “maiden tribute” is exacted by the
rich and the profligate from the work-
ing classes to-day as it was in antiquity.
Thus Europe honors its women! Those
who wish to know more about the
human side of this tragedy may read
the reports of special commissions and
Bernard Shaw's play, “Mrs. Warren’s
Profession.” These armies of, “aban-
doned” women are the nemesis of
society in the West. Their existence is
due not to human depravity, but to
OPINION
243
economic conditions and the marriage
customs of the people.—Har Dayal in
the Modern Review of Calcutta.
<3 "Waking Up Late” is the heading of
an editorial in the Macon Telegraph and
it points a truth this Association is
trying hard to make people understand.
“Ex-Governor Hoke of Kansas,” says
the Telegraph, "who has been inquiring
into conditions as they affect the Ne-
groes while touring the country to fill
Chautauqua engagements, reports that
race prejudice is rapidly increasing in
the North; that the Negro is practically
barred from white churches; that few
hotels will give him accommodations; and
that the labor unions shut their doors
against him. The ex-Governor from the
land of John Brown, who expresses as-
tonishment at the results of his observa-
tions, is late in discovering what has
been plain to other observers for a long
time. 'If we had it all to do over again
there wouldn’t be any war,’ said a young
New Yorker in a recent discussion of
the Negro question, and probably this
is pretty typical of the present attitude
of at least the young North.”
CJ A newspaper correspondent writes
concerning commerce in New York:
"I was surprised, while out on the
docks, to see the large quantity of
African products sent to this country.
On the English dock at 14th Street I
counted over one hundred hogsheads
of palm oil; on the German dock, Ho-
boken, I saw thousands of bags of
African redwood bark, used for tanning
leather, and equally as many bags of
ivory nuts, used for making buttons.
The names of the importers of these
products are those of white men. Ne-
groes do not seem to be interested in
these ventures. Haitian coffee and
Liberian coffee, and even African yams,
are imported in large quantities. There
must be a market for these products,
else they would not come into this port
with such regularity and in such great
quantities.”
<3 The St. Louis Post-Dispatch speaks
its mind frankly on the question of
segregation:	"Neighborhood associa-
tions of this city are advocating the
passage of an ordinance for the segrega-
tion of white and colored races on the
Baltimore plan of last spring. White
persons are to be forbidden under pen-
alties from moving into blocks in which
a majority of the residents are colored,
and colored persons are to be forbidden
to move into blocks in which a majority
of the residents are white.
“The plan is fatuous and futile.^ The
aims of the improvement associations are
entitled to sympathy, but the desirability
of neighborhoods cannot be conserved
in this way. Racial prejudices cannot
be crystallized in legal enactments in
this country any more than religious
prejudices.”
<3 "Immediately after the Civil War a
young colored man in Alabama deter-
mined to win independence.” says the
New York Survey. “The United States
government had given him his freedom,
but left him naked and ignorant, without
land and without schooling. Even Russia
when she freed her serfs went through
the form of giving each of them a bit of
earth on which to live and to die. John
Benson, along with millions of other
freedmen, was left to shift for himself;
but he did not in the process, like most
of them, become shiftless. The first year
he worked for pay which was to be a
bale of cotton. By good luck cotton
was high that year and his bale brought
him several hundred dollars. He was no
man’s hired servant after that. _ His
former master sold him a scrap of land
and he bought a mule. That was the
beginning of a long, hard-working, hon-
est life. To-day he is the owner of more
than 2,000 acres of land and countless
mules. At least when he was asked, the
other day, how many he had, he laughed
and said, ‘To tell the living truth I do
not know.’
"John Benson lives in the uplands of
Alabama, eighteen miles from any rail-
road, on stony soil. Kowaliga, his home,
is away from all modern appliances of
culture, save the school which his son
was instrumental in establishing some
years ago. It is not very far from We-
tumpka, where the State of Alabama has
a great prison farm. Mr. Benson goes
often to Wetumpka and is acquainted
with conditions there. He knows all the
colored people within a radius of many
miles and has more than three hundred
on his own land. He has been a tre-
mendous power in keeping these men in-
dustrious and honest. He was asked how
many had been sent to Wetumpka from
this hilltop community. He paused a
few minutes, and then replied; ‘Not one
that I can recollect. They have had to
work too hard to have time for mis-
chief.’ ’\
A LOSS OF MEMORY.
“Uncle Mose,” said a drummer, address-
ing an old colored man seated on a dry-
goods box in front of the village store,
“they tell me that you remember seeing
George Washington. Am I mistaken?”
"No, sah,” said Uncle Mose. "I useter
’member seein’ him but I done fo’got sence
I jined de church.”—Everybody’s.
EDITORIAL
iftf#
EASTER.
THE winter of Despair has long
lain upon our souls. Again
and again, out of the awful
mists of Nowhere, the cold, white
hands of God have crept down and
gripped His world until the people
shivered and starved and children
whimpered in their mothers' arms. So
was the day of long night.
Now all is changed.
This is the Resurrection Morning.
The world-God stands aloft and
smiles with splendor on his brows.
The waters trickle, the birds sing, and
pulses beat in the eternal hills.
“Awake, awake, put on thy
strength, O Zion; put on thy beautiful
robes."
There is in this round world neither
Death nor Despair, but ever continu-
ally, eternally triumphant over mist
and mire, crime and cruelty, springs
the unending Hope of Life, of Life
that is Life, that lives.
This alone is real. These other
things that fill and, alas! must fill our
pages—murder, meanness, the hurt-
ing of little children, the dishonoring
of womanhood, the starving of souls
—all these are but the unsubstantial
smoke and shadow that hide the Real
Things. This reality is ever there,
howsoever dark the darkness that
blackens and hides it.
Richard Brown is real—the modest,
good-faced colored boy, told to paint
barns when he can paint the morning
as he has done on our cover this
month ; or that Boston black boy told to
earn a living when his soul sees visions
in the human face; this whole great
black and wonderful race (more won-
derful perhaps in countless subtle
ways than anything this world has
seen), whose spirit nothing can break
and whose upward rending nothing
can stop. This is the Eternal Reality
of the Easter of the world; this is the
Resurrection of the Hope that burned
in the breast of Douglass and Garri-
son, of Phillips, Langston and John
Brown. This is the Hope that never
dies.
THE UNQUENCHABLE THIRST.
THERE is a deep and painful
silence among certain elements
in the Census Bureau since the
latest agricultural statistics have
appeared. Even John Lee Coulter,
who is a clerk in the agricultural
division and can see anything detri-
mental to black folk about as far as
the next person, has, we are told, a
severe case of lockjaw. The reason
for this is the difficulty of finding any-
thing but surprise, praise and con-
gratulation in the record of farm
holding among black men. The value
of farm property owned and rented
by colored farmers has, in the South-
ern States, increased from 50 per cent,
to 225 per cent, in the last ten years.
In Tex'as, for instance, it has gone
from $56,000,000 to $113,000,000; in
North Carolina from $29,000,000 to
$81,000,000, and in Georgia from
$48,000,000 to $158,000,000. Nor
has this been merely increase in the
value of the same land. In these ten
States the Negroes controlled, in
1910, 3,683,154 more acres than in
1900. It is not yet possible to sepa-
rate the land owners and the renters.
We only know that the owners have
increased in eight States from 125,413
to 149,235 in these ten years. We
dare affirm that no class of white
peasantry in any European State has
in the face of the most favorable ordi-
nary conditions paralleled this record
EDITORIAL
245
which the colored people have made in
the midst of outrage, discrimination
and lawlessness. This is the answer
which the young postbellum Negro is
making to the Southern gentleman.
FISK UNIVERSITY.
NOT only has the General Edu-
cation Board done very little
for higher education among
colored people, leaving the best of
their tottering colleges to struggle on
unaided, but even when, in response
to repeated appeals, it offered help to
Fisk University, the conditions accom-
panying the offer were so onerous that
the board could hardly have expected
them to be fulfilled. Fisk University
is the largest and oldest colored col-
lege in the South. It has a record
of effective work and influence which
few white institutions in the land can
match. The quality and standing of
its work are far above that of the Uni-
versity of Virginia or the University
of Georgia, and probably equal to that
of Vanderbilt. The work of Fisk has
been done with a wretchedly restricted
income, almost without State aid and
without endowment. To such an insti-
tution the General Education Board
offers $60,000, on condition that the
institution raise $240,000, four times
as much, itself, and at the same time
keep out of debt!
Industrial schools like Hampton and
Tuskegee have repeatedly gotten
donations from the board with easy
conditions; white Southern colleges
have gotten gifts on condition of rais-
ing dollar for dollar; if we mistake
not, the hardest condition usually
imposed is that the college must raise
two, or even three, dollars to each
dollar of donation. In the case of Fisk
University, four dollars must be
begged for every one dollar donated.
The conditions are unfair. Neverthe-
less, they ought to be met. The very
fact that failure was possibly ex-
pected should be incentive to make
every graduate and friend of Fisk give
to the cause. Over $125,000 has been
pledged, but nearly $115,000 is still
needed. The alumni are bending
every effort. Will not the friends of
manhood and education among Ne-
groes rally to this great cause?
THE SERVANT IN THE SOUTH.
DURING slavery days the house
servants were rewarded with
extra privileges, among which
were the left-over food and cast-off
clothing of the “big house.” This
easily became, under the less rigorous
forms of serfdom, a sort of payment
in kind for personal service, and now
and then “tips” in actual money were
given. When formal emancipation
came the servants were promised
wages, but as a matter of fact the
wages were seldom paid in cash, while
a money value was often given to the
food and old clothes. This old custom
could easily degenerate into something
very like stealing, and yet the custom
could seem justifiable in the eyes of
the ignorant, especially when their
wages were low and often unpaid, and
when they saw mistresses wink at and
even expect peculations of this sort.
On the other hand, colored servants
are not dishonest; money, jewelry and
the like are safe in their hands with
few exceptions.
The result of the old system was
unrest among servants, and the more
intelligent and thrifty escaped from
domestic service into the care of their
own homes or day's work or other in-
dustrial avenues. Or if they continued
in service they went North, where in-
stead of receiving $1.50 a week in old
clothes and cold victuals, they could
earn $5 and $6 a week in cash.
Moreover, the conditions under
which a colored servant in the South
must work are the worst in the civil-
ized world. The hours are endless,
the quarters are poor, the deference
demanded is unbearable to people of
the least spirit, and the assumption
of the natural inferiority of the serv-
ant is almost universal.
Not only this but there is in the
majority of cases in the South abso-
lutely no protection for the black
girl's virtue in the white man’s home.
Everybody knows that the mulatto
both before and since slavery was the
outcome of house service.
246
THE CRISIS
What is the result? Poor and un-
willing service. The best Negroes are
withdrawing their sons and daughters
from house service just as quickly as
they can, and they deserve commenda-
tion for so doing. Even those Negroes
who publicly commend house service
are curiously careful to keep their
children out of it. Those who cannot
escape are demanding shorter hours,
proper wages and better treatment.
And those Southern families who can
keep their black servants but three
weeks would better ask advice of their
neighbors who keep good and faithful
black servants for ten and twenty
years.
Instead of responding to a legiti-
mate demand for change in working
conditions, the majority of South-
erners take their usual refuge in
whining and shrieking “Negro”
problem. Every time that the white
South runs head foremost into the
inevitable laws of nature by trying
to keep slavery, establish peonage,
deny manhood rights to men and de-
grade decent women—every time the
South tries this there is a mawkish
sentimentality throughout the North to
encourage the idea that these laws are
not human but peculiar or racial.
If people pay their laborers low
wages and cheat them out of even
these, they will get cheap labor,
whether that labor be black, white or
blue.
If the South or the North wants de-
cent domestic service it must
(1)	Pay decent wages.
(2)	Give shorter hours and more
definite duties.
(3)	Treat servants as men and
women and not as cattle.
The people that are unwilling to do
this will find the “servant problem”
always with them, even though they
nickname it a “Negro” problem.
MODEST ME.
THE editor of The Crisis
assumes to be a fairly modest
man as modesty goes in these
trumpeting times; but with some diffi-
dence he admits to a swelling of par-
donable pride at a certain-occurrence
in South Carolina which the papers of
that realm, with somewhat singular
unanimity, have omitted to notice.
Some time since—to be exact, in
1901—the editor and certain other
persons (among them the Hon. Wood-
row Wilson, then unknown to a
newer kind of fame) were asked to
write on “Reconstruction” for the
Atlantic. The editor concocted an
article which he liked quite well, and
in turn the Atlantic was persuaded to
publish it. It was called “The Freed-
man’s Bureau.” It caused no stir in
the world, but the editor kept it care-
fully in his archives to gloat over now
and then in the fastnesses of his study
when the family had retired. Very
well.
Some time in 1911 the Wade
Hampton Chapter of the United
Daughters of the Confederacy offered
a medal to the student of the Univer-
sity of South Carolina writing the
best article on “The Freedman’s Bu-
reau.” Mr. Colin W. Covington, of
Bennettsville, S. C., won- the coveted
prize, and his essay was published in
the Columbia State, January 28, 1912.
Imagine, now, the editor’s gratifi-
cation on reading this work of genius
to discover that nearly one-half of
the essay, and that the important and
concluding half, was the editor’s own
work from his Atlantic essay of 1901.
A single quotation will indicate more
clearly this new instance of racial con-
cord :
From	Colin W.
Covington’s es-
say	on “The
Freedman’s Bu-
reau,” which won
the Daughters
of the Confede-
racy medal.
In a distracted
land, where slav-
ery had hardly
fallen, to keep the
strong from wan-
ton abuse of the
weak, and the weak
from staring with
hate over the half-
shorn strength of
the strong, was a
thankless, hopeless
task. The former
masters of ' the
From “The Freed-
man’s Bureau,”
by W. E. B. Du
Bois, Atlantic
Monthly, 1901.
In a distracted
land, where slav-
ery had h a*r d 1 y
fallen, to keep the
strong from wan-
ton abuse of the
weak, and the weak
from gloating inso-
lently over the half-
shorn strength of
the strong, was a
thankless, hopeless
task. The former
masters of the
EDITORIAL	'	247
land were abso-
lutely ordered
about, seized and
imprisoned, and
punished over and
again, with almost
no courtesy from
army officers. The
former slaves were
intimidated, beat-
en, raped and but-
chered by angry
and revengeful
men. Bureau
courts tended to
become centers
simply for punish-
ing whites, while
the regular civil
courts tended to
become solely in-
stitutions for per-
petuating the slav-
ery of blacks. Al-
most every law
and method in-
genuity could de-
vise was employed
by the legislatures
to reduce the Ne-
groes to serfdom—
to make them the
slaves of the State,
if not of individual
owners; while the
bureau officials too
often were found
striving to put the
“bottom rail on
top,” and give the
freedmen a power
and independence
which they could
not yet use. It is
all well enough for
us of another gen-
eration to wax wise
with advice to
those who bore the
burden in the heat
of the day. It is
full easy now to see
that the man who
lost home, fortune
and family at a
stroke, and saw
his land ruled by
“mules and nig-
gers,” was really
benefited by the
passing of slavery.
It is not difficult
now to say to the
young freedman,
cheated and beaten
about, who has
seen his father’s
head beaten to a
jelly and his own
mother namelessly
land’were peremp-
torily ordered
about, seized and
imprisoned, and
punished over and
again, with scant
courtesy from
army officers. The
former slaves were
intimidated, beat-
en, raped and but-
chered by angry
and revengeful
men. B ur e a u
courts tended to
become centers
simply for punish-
ing whites, while
the regular civil
courts tended to
become solely in-
stitutions for per-
petuating the slav-
ery of blacks. Al-
most every law
and method in-
genuity could de-
vise was employed
by the legislatures
to reduce the Ne-
groes to serfdom—
to make them the
slaves of the State,
if not of individual
owners; while the
bureau officials too
often were found
striving to put the
“bottom rail on
top,” and give the
freedmen a power
and independence
which they could
not yet use. It is
all well enough for
us of another gen-
eration to wax wise
with advice to
those who bore the
burden in the heat
of the day. It is
full easy now to see
that the man who
lost home, fortune
and family at a
stroke, and saw
his land ruled by
“mules and nig-
gers,” was really
benefited by the
passing of slavery.
It . is not difficult
now to say to the
young1 freedman,
che.ated and cuffed
about, who has
seen, his father's
head beaten to a
jelly , an.d his own
mother namelessly'
assaulted, that “the
meek shall inherit
the earth.” Above
all, nothing is more
convenient than to
heap on the freed-
men’s bureau all
the evils of that
evil day and damn
it utterly for every
mistake and blun-
der that was made.
All this is easy,
but it is neither
sensible nor right.
Someone had blun-
dered before
Oliver Howard was
born; there was
criminal aggression
and heedless neg-
lect, but without
some system of
control there
would have been
far more than there
was. Had that
control been from
within the Negro
would have been re-
enslaved to all in-
tents and purposes.
Coming, as the
control did, from
without, perfect
men and methods
would have bet-
tered all things
and even with im-
perfect agents and
questionable meth-
ods, the work ac-
complished was
not without much
praise.
assaulted, that “the
meek shall'inherit
the earth.” Above
all, nothing is more
convenient than to
heap on the freed-
men's bureau all
the evils of that
evil day and damn
it utterly for every
mistake and blun-
der that was made.
All this is easy,
but it is neither
sensible nor right.
Someone had blun-
dered, but that was
long before
Oliver Howard was
born; there was
criminal aggression
and heedless neg-
lect, but without
some system of
control there
would have been
far more than there
was. Had that
control been from
within the Negro
would have been re-
enslaved to all in-
tents and purposes.
Coming, as the
control did, from
without, perfect
men and methods
would have bet-
tered all things
and even with im-
perfect agents and
questionable meth-
ods, the work ac-
complished was
not undeserving of
commendation.
There is nothing to mar the fulness
of the tribute here involved—not even
quotation marks!
More might be quoted to the extent
of two or three of these pages, but let
us forbear. Were the editor a grasp-
ing man he might (either for himself
or for his race) ask to have a large
share of that medal clipped from the
proud young Southern breast that
bears it and pinned on his own. But
no. Sufficient be the secret sense of
desert and warmest flattery, and the
editor yields to vanity only to the ex-
tent of bringing all this to the atten-
tion of his assiduous friend, the
Charleston News and Courier, whose
frequent sallies have in the past
caused him much innocent amusement.
THE DOLL
A story written for THE CRISIS by CHARLES WADDELL CHESNUTT
Author of “Tho Conjure Woman,” “The House Behind the Cedars,” etc.
(Copyrighted 1912.)
When Tom Taylor, proprietor of the
Wyandot Hotel barber shop, was leav-
ing home, after his noonday luncheon,
to return to his work, his daughter, a
sprightly, diminutive brown maid, with
very bright black eyes and very curly,
black hair, thrust into his coat pocket a
little jointed doll somewhat the worse
for wear.
“Now, don’t forget, papa,” she said, in
her shrill childish treble, “what’s to be
done to her. Her arms won’t work, and
her legs won’t work, and she can’t hold
her head up. Be sure and have her
mended this afternoon, and bring her
home when you come to supper; for
she’s afraid of the dark, and always
sleeps with me. I'll meet you at the
corner at half-past six—and don’t for-
get, whatever you do.”
“No, Daisy, I’ll not forget,” he
replied, as he lifted her to the level of
his lips and kissed her.
Upon reaching the shop he removed
the doll from his pocket and hung it
on one of the gilded spikes projecting
above the wire netting surrounding the
cashier’s desk, where it would catch his
eye. Some time during the afternoon
he would send it to a toy shop around
the corner for repairs. But the day was
a busy one, and when the afternoon was
well advanced he had not yet attended
to it.
Colonel Forsyth had come up from
the South to attend a conference of
Democratic leaders to* consider presi-
dential candidates and platforms. He had
put up at the Wyandot Hotel, but had
been mainly in the hands of Judge Bee-
man, chairman of the local Jackson
club, who was charged with the duty of
seeing that the colonel was made com-
fortable and given the freedom of the
city. It was after a committee meet-
ing, and about 4 in the afternoon, that
the two together entered the lobby of
the Wyandot. They were discussing
the platforms to be put forward by the
two great parties in the approaching
campaign.
“I reckon, judge,” the colonel was
saying, “that the Republican party will
make a mistake if it injects the Negro
question into its platform. The question
is primarily a local one, and if the North
will only be considerate about the mat-
ter, and let us alone, we can settle it
to our entire satisfaction. The Negro’s
place is defined by nature, and in the
South he knows it and gives us no
trouble.”
“The Northern Negroes are different,”
returned the judge.
“They are just the same,” rejoined the
colonel. “It is you who are different.
You pamper them and they take liber-
ties with you. But they are all from the
South, and when they meet a Southerner
they act accordingly. They are born to
serve and to submit. If they had been
worthy of equality they would never
have endured slavery. They have no
proper self-respect; they will neither
resent an insult, nor defend a right, nor
avenge a wrong.”
“Well, now, colonel, aren’t you rather
hard on them? Consider their past.”
“Hard? Why, no, bless your heart!
I’ve got nothing against the nigger. I
like him—in his place. But what I say
is the truth. Are you in a hurry?”
“Not at all.”
“Then come downstairs to the barber
shop and I’ll prove what I say.”
The shop was the handsomest barber
shop in the city. It was in the base-
ment, and the paneled ceiling glowed
with electric lights. The floor was of
white tile, the walls lined with large
mirrors. Behind ten chairs, of the latest
and most comfortable design, stood as
many colored barbers, in immaculate
white jackets, each at work upon a white
patron. An air of discipline and good
order pervaded the establishment. There
was no loud talking by patrons, no
unseemly garrulity on the part of the
barbers. It was very obviously a well-
conducted barber shop, frequented by
gentlemen who could afford to pay lib-
erally for superior service. As the
judge and the colonel entered a custo-
mer vacated the chair served by the
proprietor.
“Next gentleman,” said the barber.
The colonel removed his collar and
took his seat in the vacant chair, remark-
ing, as he ran his hand over his neck,
“I want a close shave, barber.”
“Yes, sir; a close shave.”
The barber was apparently about
forty, with a brown complexion, clean-
cut features and curly hair. Committed
by circumstances to a career of personal
service, he had lifted it by intelligence,
tact and industry to the dignity of a
successful business. The judge, a regu-
THE DOLL
249
lar patron of the shop, knew him well
and had often, while in his chair, con-
versed with him concerning his race—
a fruitful theme, much on the public
tongue.
“As I was saying,” said the colonel,
while the barber adjusted a towel about
his neck, “the Negro question is a per-
fectly simple one.”
The judge thought it hardly good
taste in the colonel to continue in his
former strain. Northern men might
speak slightingly of the Negro, but sel-
dom in his presence. He tried a little
diversion.
“The tariff,” he observed, “is a diffi-
cult problem.”
“Much more complicated, suh, than
the Negro problem, which is perfectly
simple. Let the white man once impress
the Negro with his superiority; let the
Negro see that there is no escape from
the inevitable, and that ends it. The
best thing about the Negro is that, with
all his limitations, he can recognize a fin-
ality. It is the secret of his persistence
among us. He has acquired the faculty
of evolution, suh—by the law of the sur-
vival of the fittest. Long ago, when a
young man, I killed a nigger to teach
him his place. One who learns a lesson
of that sort certainly never offends
again, nor fathers any others of his
breed.”
The . barber, having lathered the
colonel’s face, was stropping his razor
with long, steady strokes. Every word
uttered by the colonel was perfectly
audible to him, but his impassive coun-
tenance betrayed no interest. The
colonel seemed as unconscious of the
barber’s presence as the barber of the
colonel’s utterance. Surely, thought the
judge, if such freedom of speech were
the rule in the South the colonel's con-
tention must be correct, and the
Negroes thoroughly cowed. To a
Northern man the situation was hardly
comfortable.
“The iron and sugar interests of the
South,” persisted the judge, “will resist
any reduction of the tariff.”
The colonel was not to be swerved
from the subject, nor from his purpose,
whatever it might be.
“Quite likely they will; and we must
argue with them, for they are white
men and amenable to reason. The nig-
ger, on the other hand, is the creature
of instinct; you cannot argue with him;
you must order him, and if he resists
shoot him, as I did.
“Don’t forget, barber,” said the
colonel, “that I want a close shave.”
“No, sir,” responded the barber, who,
having sharpened his razor, now began
to pass it, with firm and even hand, over
the colonel’s cheek.
“It must have been,” said the. judge,
“an aggravated case, to justify so
extreme a step.”
“Extreme, suh? I beg yo’ pardon,
suh, but I can’t say I had regained my
conduct in that light. But it was an
extreme case so far as the nigger was
concerned. I am not boasting about my
course; it was simply a disagreeable
necessity. I am naturally a kind-
hearted man, and don’t like to kill even
a fly. It was after the war, suh, and
just as the reconstruction period was
drawing to a close. My mother em-
ployed a Negro girl, the child of a for-
mer servant of hers, to wait upon her.”
The barber was studying the colonel’s
face as the razor passed over his cheek.
The colonel’s eyes were closed, or he
might have observed the sudden gleam
of interest that broke through the bar-
ber’s mask of self-effacement, like a
flash of lightning from a clouded sky.
Involuntarily the razor remained poised
in midair, but, in less time than it takes
to say it, was moving again, swiftly and
smoothly, over the colonel’s face. To
shave a talking man required a high
degree of skill, but they were both
adepts, each in his own trade—the bar-
ber at shaving, the colonel at talking.
“The girl was guilty of some miscon-
duct, and my mother reprimanded her
and sent her home. She complained to
her father, and he came to see my
mother about it. He was insolent,
offensive and threatening. I came into
the room and ordered him to leave it.
Instead of obeying, he turned on me
in a rage, suh, and threatened me. I
drew my revolver and shot him. The
result was unfortunate; but he and his
people learned a lesson. We had no
further trouble with bumptious niggers
in our town.”
“And did you have no trouble in the
matter?” asked the judge.
“None, suh, to speak of. There were
proceedings, but they were the merest
formality. Upon my statement, con-
firmed by that of my mother, I was dis-
charged by the examining magistrate,
and the case was never even reported
to the grand jury. It was a clear case
of self-defense.”
The barber had heard the same story,
with some details ignored or forgotten
by the colonel. It was the barber’s
father who had died at the colonel’s
hand, and for many long years the son
had dreamed of this meeting.
He remembered the story in this wise:
His father had been a slave. Freed by
the Civil War, he had entered upon the
new life with the zeal and enthusiasm
of his people at the dawn of liberty,
which seem, in the light of later dis-
couragements, so pathetic in the retro-
spect. The chattel aspired to own
property; the slave, forbidden learning,
to educate his children. He had worked
early and late, had saved his money
with a thrift equal to that of a German
250
THE CRISIS
immigrant, and had sent his children
regularly to school.
The girl—the barker remembered her
very well—had been fair of feature, soft
of speech and gentle of manner, a pearl
among pebbles. One day her father’s
old mistress had met him on the street
and, after a kindly inquiry about his
family, had asked if she might hire his
daughter during the summer, when there
was no school. Her own married
daughter would be visiting her, with a
young child, and they wanted some neat
and careful girl to nurse the infant.
“Why, yas ma’am,” the barber’s
father had replied. “I reckon it might
be.a good thing fer Alice. I wants her
ter be a teacher; but she kin l’arn things
from you, ma’am, that no teacher kin
teach her. She kin l’arn manners,
ma’am, an’ white folks’ ways, and no-
where better than in yo’ house.”
So Alice had gone to the home of
her father’s former mistress to learn
white folks’ ways. Tire lady had been
kind and gracious. But there are ways
and ways among all people.
When she had been three weeks in
her new employment her mistress’s son
—a younger brother of the colonel—
came home from college. Some weeks
later Alice went home to her father.
Who was most at fault the barber never
knew. A few hours afterward the
father called upon the lady. There was
a stormy interview. Things were said
to which the ears of white ladies were
unaccustomed from the lips of black
men. The elder son had entered the
room and interfered. The barber’s
father had turned to him and exclaimed
angrily:
‘‘Go ’way from here, boy, and don’t
talk ter me, or I’m liable ter harm you.”
The young man stood his ground.
The Negro advanced menacingly
toward him. The young man drew his
ready weapon and fatally wounded the
Negro—he lived only long enough,
after being taken home, to gasp out the
facts to his wife and children.
The rest of the story had been much
as the colonel had related it. As the
barber recalled it, however, the lady
had not been called to testify, but was
ill at the time of the hearing, presum-
ably from the nervous shock.
That she had secretly offered to help
the family the barber knew, and that
her help had been rejected with cold
hostility. He knew that the mur-
derer went unpunished, and that in later
years he had gone into politics, and
became the leader and mouthpiece of
his party. All the world knew that he
had ridden. into power on his hostility
to Negro rights.
The barber had been a mere boy at
the time of his father’s death, but not
too young to appreciate the calamity
that had befallen the household. The
family was broken up. The sordid
details of its misfortunes would not be
interesting. Poverty, disease and death
had followed them, until he alone was
left. Many years had passed. The
brown boy who had wept beside his
father’s bier, and who had never for-
gotten nor forgiven, was now the grave-
faced, keen-eyed, deft-handed barber,
who held a deadly weapon at the throat
of his father’s slayer.
How often he had longed for this
hour! In his dreams he had killed this
man a hundred times, in a dozen ways.
Once, when a young man, he had gone
to meet him, with the definite purpose
of taking his life, but chance had kept
them apart. He had imagined situa-
tions where they might come face to
face; he would see the white man
struggling in the water; he would have
only to stretch forth his hand to save
him; but he would tell him of his
hatred and let him drown. He would see
him in a burning house, from which he
might rescue him; and he would call him
murderer and let him burn! He would
see him in the dock for murder of a
white man, and only his testimony
could save him, and he would let him
suffer the fate that he doubly deserved!
He saw a vision of his father’s form,
only an hour before thrilling with hope
and energy, now stiff and cold in death;
while under his keen razor lay the neck
of his enemy, the enemy, too, of his
race, sworn to degrade them, to teach
them, if need be, with the torch and
with the gun, that their place was at
the white man's feet, his heel upon
their neck; who held them in such con-
. tempt that he could speak as he had
spoken in the presence of one of them.
One stroke of the keen blade, a deflec-
tion of half an inch in its course, and
a murder would be avenged, an enemy
destroyed!
For the next sixty seconds the barber
heard every beat of his own pulse, and
the colonel, in serene unconsciousness,
was nearer death than he had ever been
in the course of a long and eventful life.
He was only a militia colonel, and had
never been under fire, but his turbulent
political career had been passed in a
community where life was lightly
valued, where hot -words were often fol-
lowed by rash deeds, and murder was
tolerated as a means of private venge-
ance and political advancement.. He
went on talking, but neither the judge
nor the barber listened, each being
absorbed in his own thoughts.
To the judge, who lived in a commu-
nity where Negroes voted, the colonel’s
frankness was a curious revelation. His
language was choice, though delivered
with the Southern intonation, his tone
easy and conversational, and, in address-
ing the barber directly, his manner had
been courteous enough. The judge was
THE DOLL
251
interested, too, in watching the barber,
who, it was evident, was repressing some
powerful emotion. It seemed very prob-
able to the judge that the barber might
resent this cool recital of murder and
outrage. He did not know what might
be true of the Negroes in the South, but
he had been judge of a police court in
one period of his upward career, and he
had found colored people prone to sud-
den rages, when under the influence
of strong emotion, handy with edged
tools, and apt to cut thick and deep,
nor always careful about the color of
the cuticle. The barber’s feelings were
plainly stirred, and the judge, a student
of human nature, was curious
to see if he would be moved
to utterance. It would have
been no novelty—patrons of
the shop often discussed race
questions with the barber. It
was evident that the colonel
was trying an experiment to
demonstrate his contention
in the lobby above. But the
judge could not know the
barber's intimate relation to
the story, nor did it occur to
him that the barber might
conceive any deadly purpose
because of a purely imper-
sonal grievance. The bar-
ber’s hand did not even
tremble.
In the barber’s mind, how-
ever, the whirlwind of emo-
tions had passed lightly over
the general and settled upon
the particular injury. So
strong, for the moment, was
the homicidal impulse that it
would have prevailed already
had not the noisy opening of
the door to admit a patron
diverted the barber’s atten-
tion and set in motion a cur-
rent of ideas which fought
for the colonel’s life. The
barber's glance toward the
door, from force of habit,
took in the whole shop. It
was a handsome shop, and
had been to the barber a
matter of more than merely
personal pride. Prominent
among a struggling people, as yet
scarcely	beyond the threshold of
citizenship, he had long been looked
upon, and had become accustomed to
regard himself, as a representative man,
by whose failure or success his race
would be tested. Should he slay this
man now beneath his hand, this beauti-
ful shop would be los.t to his people.
Years before the whole trade had been
theirs. One by one the colored master
barbers, trained in the slovenly old
ways, had been forced to the wall by
white competition, until his shop was
one of the few good ones remaining in
the hands of men of his race. Many an
envious eye had been cast upon it. The
lease had only a year to run. Strong
pressure, he knew, had been exerted by
a white rival to secure the reversion.
The barber had the hotel proprietor s
promise of a renewal; but he knew full
well that should he lose the shop no
colored man would succeed him; a cen-
ter of industry, a medium of friendly
contact with white men, would be lost
to his people—many a good turn had
the barber been able to do for them
while he had the ear—literally had the
ear—of some influential citizen, or held
some aspirant for public office by the
throat. Of the ten barbers in the shop
all but one were married, with families
dependent upon them for support. One
was sending a son to college; another
was buying a home. The unmarried one
was in his spare hours studying a pro-
fession, with the hope of returning to
practice it among his people in a
Southern State. Their fates were all. in
a measure, dependent upon the proprie-
tor of the shop. Should he yield to the
impulse which was swaying him their
livelihood would be placed in jeopardy.
For what white man, while the mem-
ory of this tragic event should last.
Arranged and photographed by Walter Baker, New York
“If the razor went to its goal he would not be able to fulfil
his promise to Daisy!’’ (p. 252.)
252
THE CRISIS
would trust his throat again beneath a
Negro’s razor?
Such, however, was the strength of
the impulse against which the barber
was struggling that these considerations
seemed likely not to prevail. indeed,
they had presented themselves to the
barber’s mind in a vague, remote,
detached manner, while the dominant
idea was present and compelling, clutch-
ing at his heart, drawing his arm, guid-
ing his fingers. It was by their mass
rather than by their clearness that these
restraining forces held the barber’s arm
so long in check—it was society against
self, civilization against the primitive
instinct, typifying, more fully than the
barber could realize, the great social
problem involved in the future of his
race.
He had now gone once over the
colonel’s face, subjecting that gentleman
to less discomfort than he had for a
long time endured while undergoing a
similar operation. Already he had
retouched one cheek and had turned the
colonel’s head to finish the other. A
few strokes more and the colonel could
be released with a close shave—how
close he would never know!—or, one
stroke, properly directed, and he would
never stand erect again! Only the day
before the barber had read, in the news-
papers, the account of a ghastly lynch-
ing in a Southern State, where, to
avenge a single provoked murder, eight
Negroes had bit the dust and a woman
had been burned at the stake for no
other crime than that she was her hus-
band’s wife. One stroke and there
would be one less of those who thus
wantonly played with human life!
The uplifted hand had begun the
deadly downward movement—when one
of the barbers dropped a shaving cup,
which was smashed to pieces on the
marble floor. Fate surely fought for
the colonel—or was it for the barber?
Involuntarily the latter stayed his hand
—instinctively his glance went toward
the scene of the accident. It was re-
turning to the upraised steel, and its
uncompleted task, when it was arrested
by Daisy’s doll, hanging upon the gilded
spike where he had left it.
If the razor went to its goal he would
not .be able to fulfil his promise to
Daisy! She would wait for him at the
corner, and wait in vain! If lie killed
the colonel lie himself could hardly
escape, for lie was black and not white,
and this was North and not South, and
personal vengeance was not accepted by
the courts as a justification for murder.
Whether lie died or not, he would be
lost to Daisy. His wife was dead, and
there would be no one to take care of
Daisy. Ilis own father had died in
defense of his daughter; he must live to
protect his own. If there was a right-
eous God, who divided the evil from the
good, the colonel would some time get
his just deserts. Vengeance was God’s;
it must be left to Him to repay!
The jointed doll had saved the colonel’s
life. Whether society had con-
quered self or not may be an open ques-
tion, but it had stayed the barber’s hand
until love could triumph over hate!
The barber laid aside the razor,
sponged off the colonel’s face, brought
him, with a movement of the chair, to a
sitting posture, brushed his hair, pulled
away the cloths from around his neck,
handed him a pasteboard check for the
amount 'of his bill, and stood rigidly by
his chair. The colonel adjusted his col-
lar, threw down a coin equal to double
the amount of his bill and, without wait-
ing for the change, turned with the
judge to leave the shop. They had
scarcely reached the door leading into
the hotel lobby when the barber, over-
wrought by the long strain, collapsed
heavily into the nearest chair.
“Well, judge,” said the colonel, as
they entered the lobby, “that was a
good shave. What a sin it would be
to spoil such a barber by making him a
postmaster! I didn’t say anything to
him, for it don’t do to praise a nigger
much—it’s likely to give him the big
head—but I never had,” he went on,
running his hand appreciatively over his
cheek. “I never had a better shave in
my life. And I proved my theory. The
barber is the son of the nigger I shot.”
The judge was not 'sure that the
colonel had proved his theory, and was
less so after he had talked, a week later,
with the barber. And, although the
colonel remained at the Wyandot for
several days, he did not get shaved
again in the hotel barber shop.
RONDEAU.
When April’s here and meadows wide
Once more with spring’s sweet growths
are pied,
I close each book, drop each pursuit,
And past the brook, no longer mute,
I joyous roam the countryside.
Look, here the violets shy abide
And there the mating robins hide—
How keen my senses, how acute,
When April’s here!
And list! down where the shimmering
tide
Hard by that farthest hill doth glide, (
Rise faint strains from shepherd’s
flute,
Pan’s pipes and Berecyntian lute.
Each sight, each sound fresh joys pro-
vide
When April’s here.
Jessie Fauset.
BURDE
LAND LEASE WHICH NEGRO
TENANTS ARE REQUIRED TO
SIGN IN ALABAMA.
Said tenant further agrees that until
the rent, and advances, if any, are paid
to the owner, to have all the cotton made
on the premises during the term of this
lease ginned at any ginnery or stored
at any place in said county the owner
may designate, and to turn over to the
owner the receipts for each bale, to hold
until sold.
It is further agreed to between the
parties to this contract that no altera-
tions or repairs are to be made in, on
or to the premises, without the written
consent of the owner, and that the tenant
shall first pay for all advances made by
or due to the owner, and then pay the
rent due under this contract.
Said tenant further agrees that if he
violates this contract, or neglects or
abandons or fails (or in the owner’s
judgment violates this contract or fails')
to properly work or cultivate the land
early or at the proper times, or in case
he should become physically or legally
incapacitated from working said lands,
or should die during the term of this
lease, or fails to gather or save the crops
when made, or fails to pay the rents,
or advances made by the owner when
due, then in case of any such failures,
the owner is hereby authorized to take
full possession of said premises, crops
and improvements, in which event this
contract may become void and cancelled
at the owner’s option, and all indebted-
ness by the tenant for advances or rent
shall at once become due and payable
to the owner, who may treat them as due
and payable, without further notice to
the tenant; and the tenant hereby agrees
to surrender the quiet and peaceable pos-
session of said premises to the owner
at said time, in which event the owner
is hereby authorized by the tenant to
take possession of said premises, and
transfer, sell or dispose of all thereon
the tenant has any interest in, and this
lease, together with all work done and
all improvements or crops on or gathered
from said premises in which said tenant
may have any interest, in such manner
and at such times as he (the owner) may
deem best without further notice to said
tenant, this, contract being sufficient
notice; and in order to entitle the owner
to do so, it shall not be necessary to
give any notice of any failure or viola-
tion of this contract by the tenant, or to
make any demand for said premises, the
execution of this contract or lease, signed
by the said owner and tenant, which is
hereby acknowledged, being sufficient
notice of defalcation on the part of the
tenant, and of the owner’s demand for
possession of the premises, and shall be
so construed between the parties hereto,
any law, usage or custom to the con-
trary notwithstanding.
THE “JIM CROW” CAR.
Interstate Commerce Commission,
Washington, D. C.
Gentlemen: Some time ago in answer
to complaints from colored citizens, I
understand that your commission said
that the interstate travelers of color
would have equal accommodations. I
have had numerous difficulties in secur-
ing Pullman sleeper-car accommodations
in all parts of the South.
On Thursday night, December 7th, I
purchased a ticket from Pensacola, Flor-
ida, to Savannah, Georgia, by the way
of the L. & N. and Seaboard Air Line.
I had to be in Savannah at a meeting
of the church conference, but on applica-
tion at the depot I was refused; thus, the
only way to make connections to arrive
in Savannah on time was to take a pas-
senger car as far as Montgomery.
Being an interstate traveler, I applied
for a sleeper, but was told I could not
secure one; understand there were any
number who secured berths after my
application. On my arrival at- New
Orleans I was told I could not secure a
berth because of my color, although there
were half a dozen persons who secured
berths after my application; the result
was that I had to remain over two hours
longer for a slower train, which put me
in Montgomery two hours after my train
left for Savannah, which threw me about
thirteen hours late in getting to Savan-
nah, and cost me a loss of not less than
$50. I have had so many refusals in
different States that I send you this in-
formation that you may know that Negro
passengers do not get equal accomfnoda-
tions, so far as sleeping and eating are
concerned.
Yours very truly,
254
THE CRISIS
<] Mr. Ralph W. Gloag, a Boston law-
yer, gave to the Boston Record his im-
pressions of an extended trip through the
Southern States. He found it “distinctly
unpleasant” to see young women in dress
and deportment unimpeachable, standing
in a street car behind a sign that read
“For Negroes,” and enduring the stolid
gaze that an indifferent spectator might
level at a pen of cattle. In a town in
Missouri a crowd of white boys mocked
and jeered a Negress in the same car
with the whites, and kept up the cry of
“Nigger! Nigger! Nigger!” until the train
left. Mr. Gloag had listened to inquiries
addressed to a Negro concerning his
private life, and was taken through a
black man's home without so much as
“by your leave.” In the rural districts,
he says, killing is not murder, when the
yictim is a Negro and the slayer a
white man. This is true, at least, in
Southern Texas and in Oklahoma.
HOME FOR FRIENDLESS GIRLS.
One day in 18S3, as two women were
going along a Washington street, they
noticed two little colored children
who were eating out of a garbage can.
Shocked at the sight, they began ques-
tioning the children and found that the
mother was very ill and that they had
for days sustained both themselves and
her on food obtained in this manner.
The women followed the children home,
found their story to be true, and began
to plan for the relief of the family.
They tried to find a place where the
children could be cared for until the
mother’s health was sufficiently regained
to enable her to resume the care of her
family. There was, however, no institu-
tion to meet the need of such cases.
This led to the consideration of plans
for some such home, the result being
that a house was secured and a Home
for Friendless Girls took tangible shape.
One of the pioneers of the work was
Mrs. Caroline Taylor, who lost her life
in service to the cause. The unexpired
term of her office was filled by her
daughter, Mrs. Teenie Pierre, who served
as president for eleven years. It was
under her administration that the work
was brought to the attention of Con-
gress, and interest in it was stimulated
to the point where plans were formu-
lated for the building of a regular insti-
tution. Some objection, however, was
raised by a Mr. Herbert Lewis, who
wanted the women to make the work a
rescue home for fallen women. The
women tried to make it clear to him
that that was just the kind of work they
were hoping to make unnecessary by
beginning with the girls and forming
in them proper habits, rather than try-
ing to reform them after they had fallen,
nevertheless, he failed to endorse the
plan and the matter dropped.
For the past three years Mrs. Rosetta
Lawson has been president of the home,
and under her leadership the work has
made gratifying progress. The home is
now located in a good, comfortable
building of twelve rooms at the corner
of Sixth and Girard Streets, on a lot
one hundred by one hundred and fifty
feet, which property they are buying.
THE AUSTRALIAN BLACK.
From an article by W. M. Burton, in
The Sydney, New South Wales, Morn-
ing Herald, we clip the following para-
graph:
“The treatment of our blacks in
North Australia is dreadful in the ex-
treme. In Kimberley the native is
merely a dog and a slave. One man
with whom I camped told me that to
‘get rid of the rubbish’ he made them
a present of a poisoned bullock and then
watched them die in dozens. In the
Northern Territory the black is an out-
cast and pariah. The most heinous
crime in the North is the bartering of
the young female children. I have seen
half-caste girls sold to Chinese for a
few pounds of provisions. The old
blacks will sell their young wives. On
the large cattle stations, no one protects
the young children, who are being
brought up without education for one
purpose. It is a scandal on our so-
called civilization. The police patrol
among these stations, and know what
is going on. In no Man’s Land girl
children are sold from one man to an-
other for a few pounds. The worst case
of callous cruelty that came to my
knowledge was where a man used to
shoot the blacks for sport. He called
it ‘shooting on the wing,’ as he shot them
whilst running. The police acknowl-
edged this to be the case, but they could
not bring a case home. The Territory
blacks are a fine race. Their lack of
protection is a standing disgrace to
Australia.”
CJ The Philadelphia Record says: “In the
London clubs and public houses men are
talking this week about American sav-
agery. Wondering Chinese in Shanghai
and Peking are asking if this is the
America which they have accepted as
their special mentor. India, quick to
draw historic parallels, is pointing out
that in the days of the Moguls there was
never a brutality like this one from the
part of America called Coatesville.
Turkey lifts her bloody hands in self-
exculpation—there was never anything in
an Armenian massacre to equal this.
Five continents and the islands of the
sea are pointing fingers of scorn at this
country because of the black deed of one
wild night in a Pennsylvania borough.”
RICHARD LONSDALE BROWN
[Written for The Crisis and the New York Times.]
By M. D. MACLEAN
Last spring a boy, with portfolio un-
der his arm, walked up an odd little
street in New York and knocked at the
door of Mr. George de Forest Brush, the
famous artist. He was eighteen years old,
and since that is not an age of wide
worldly experience, and he knew Mr.
Brush only through his work, it took
some courage to make the brief journey
from the corner to the studio door. Per-
and a return to such occupations as are
open to young colored men with a good
high-school education.
Richard Brown was his name and he
came from Parkersburg, W. Va. He
had been born in IndiarTa, but all his
lift! had been spent among the hills of
West Virginia. He had come to know
and love those hills as few know and
love them. To get away off from every-
RICHARD
LONSDALE
BROWN
haps he would never have ventured if
he had not been somewhat desperate.
He meant to put squarely to Mr.
Brush the great question that would
settle his life for him: “Do you think
I can ever become an artist?” If Mr.
Brush said yes then he would not change
his fate with anybody in the world. If
he said no, it was good-by to dreams
body and paint them had been his chief
pleasure in life. He cared to paint noth-
ing but landscape.
His parents had been ambitious for
him and sent him to the West Virginia
Institute, and there in the manual-train-
ing department he was taught house
painting. He did well in his studies and
well in his house painting, but it was
256
THE CRISIS
11
•i i
ii1
in his work in water colors that lie won
most applause. Everybody assured him
he was remarkable.
Fortunately for Richard Brown,
heaven had put his head on his shoul-
ders in a very square and level fashion.
Nearly any boy would have been quite
content to accept the opinion of every-
body about them. Most of us have a
lurking suspicion that we are remark-
able, and the suspicion rapidly becomes
a conviction as soon as people begin to
look on with approbation. Richard was
pleased to be complimented, and he
might have become quite satisfied wilh
himself had the flame in his heart
burned less steadily and clearly.
As it was he thought the matter out
very sanely. He was certainly able to
paint much better than other people he
knew, but it was easy to shine where
there are no rivals. It was true that
Charleston thought him already a
finished artist, but then Charleston,
with all its advantages as a place of
residence, could hardly be called a cen-
ter of art. Young Richard was deeply
disturbed about himself. He had an
ideal, formed entirely from his fancy,
for he had seen nothing of what land-
scape painting should be that could help
him. It was vague, but he felt it to be
true so far as he could formulate it, and
he was sure he was a long way from
attaining it.
In time this anxiety to know where
he stood grew quite unbearable. Some-
thing had to be done, and he packed his
bag and went to Pittsburgh. There, he
knew, were pictures and a school. The
first would tell him what he wanted to
know and the second would help him to
reach his ideal.
Pittsburgh was a revelation. In the
institute he found many pictures and
he studied there day after day. He
worked in the school, too, but somehow
he did not feel that things were going
well with him. Before the perfection of
the pictures he saw he was discouraged.
“Will I ever be an artist?” he asked
himself, and he grew more and more
restless and uncertain. Nothing satis-
fied him.
He must have been very wretche<
and unhappy, for he was a sensible boj
and yet lie did a very wild thing. H<
was convinced that New York, when
great artists lived and great landscapi
paintings were collected, would setth
liis difficulties one way or the other
Counting his money, he found lie coult
pay his fare to New York and have twe
dollars left over. Hardly stopping tc
consider what might happen to hirr
when that small capital was gone, h<
took the train.
The cost of living in New York
would be more than in Parkersburg,
that he knew, but he was rather bewil-
dered to find that to hire a room would
alone require all his money. He had
not, indeed, considered the matter very
carefully, but this was a shock. He had
the choice of a bed to sleep in and no
food, or of food and no bed; naturally
he bought something to eat.
The first night he spent in the trains
of the elevated railroad. One can ride
a long way for five cents and he rode
the longest way three times, carrying
his little bag of clothing and his pre-
cious portfolio. At the end of each
journey the guard would yell “Hi, you
there! Wake up! All out!” and the
exhausted boy would struggle up from
his cramped corner.
The next ten days are a good deal of
a blank to him. He remembers that he
ate buns and apples, as providing more
food for a starving boy at a cost of five
cents than anything else. He made a
few pennies in one way or another, but
he lived for the most part on his two
dollars.
There was hardly an art dealer in New
York the boy did not approach. He
would have sold any of his paintings for
ten cents and been thankful, but every-
where the result was the same. A col-
ored boy of eighteen—who wanted to
look at him? Nobody—not one dealer—
took him seriously enough even to
glance at his pictures. Some did not
bother themselves to treat him with de-
cent courtesy. He had absolutely noth-
ing for his pains but disappointment,
tired feet and an increased need for
something to eat. Finally he got work
house painting.
He spent every evening in the Metro-
politan *VIuseum. The pictures he found
there stirred him as nothing else had
ever done. Before the landscapes of
the French school, Rousseau and Corot
especially, he fairly worshiped. Any self-
conceit he may have had fell away com-
pletely „ before them. He knew he was
only at a beginning with a long weary
road to travel.
Fate had undoubtedly determined to
try Richard Brown to the utmost, for at
this period of his vicissitudes she gave
the threads of his already tangled exist-
ence another twist which had very
nearly the effect of tying them up in an
inextricable knot. At the moment when
he was most discouraged, when the
struggle most reduced him mentally and
physically, he received an offer which
meant comfort and usefulness. His old
school needed someone to teach house
painting and offered him the position.
There he was squarely confronted with
the question whether or not he had a
right to sacrifice his youth to so far off
an ideal, whether it would not be better
and, above all, more honorable toward
the parents who had done so much for
him to settle down in Charleston,
RICHARD LONSDALE BROWN
257
teach for a living, paint for his pleasure,
and fill his useful, inconspicuous, com-
monplace niche in the world.
,fo a conscientious boy, free from con-
ceit, it must have been a hard struggle.
In fact, it was so hard that he could not
fight it alone and he might have given
in had he not had his great ideal. He
had seen the work of Mr. George de
Forest Brush, and he had not only
admired but had recognized that it was
along somewhat similar lines t,hat he
himself should develop. He decided to
call on Mr. Brush and ask him frankly
whether he was running after a rainbow
or whether he really might some day
reach his goal.
So this was the history of Richard
Brown who was knocking at Mr. Brush’s
studio door, that the oracle might speak
and determine his future course.
Mr. Brush, fortunately, is by no
means, so haughty a personage as an art
dealer’s clerk, for he is much too busy
to think about his fame in the world.
So he invited his caller to come in and
said he would be glad to look at his
studies. Richard Brown took them out
and held them up for inspection.
There was this quality in the young
artist’s mind, that all nature was so dear
to him he never chose distinctly “pretty
spots.” He had gone out and painted
what he saw all around him. There
were winter scenes, with only a bare
tree and dried grasses in the snowy
foreground and the West Virginia hills
misty and ghostlike in the distance. He
had painted hillsides in the autumn,
bleak and treeless, with perhaps a little
cabin somewhere about, but never a
human being. And everywhere he saw
everything through the love of nature
that was his passion above all else.
All his little sketches he showed Mr.
Brush. That gentleman looked at them
with interest and asked a few questions.
Finally Richard Brown came to the fatal
point and asked if Mr. Brush thought
he could ever be an artist. To which
the great man made prompt reply:
“Why, my boy,” he said heartily, “you
are one now!”
Then he explained to Richard that
Nature had given him, indeed, her
inmost secrets, but that Art still had
many things to teach him. Those things
which teaching cannot give—the eye
that sees and the heart that feels—these
the boy knew, but other things having
to do with some matters of technique he
had to learn. However, even technically
he had acquired a good deal. He had
perspective, and his foregrounds, which
artists may say are stumbling blocks to
all beginners, were already good.
Thus Richard Brown was able to make
his great decision. There was an end
to anxiety; an end to the period of
house painting, buns and apples, for Mr.
Brush did more than give advice. He
made the boy his pupil and in the good-
ness of his kind heart took him to his
summer place in New Hampshire, that
the boy might lose no time. Here all
last summer he painted the New Eng-
land landscapes with the same insight he
had had in West Virginia, with his
master nearby to help and criticise. He
progressed so rapidly that at the end of
the summer a dealer offered to take
some of his work and exhibit it in his
rooms on Fifth Avenue. Orders, too,
had come in here and there, so that even
financial success seems to have arrived.
The boy’s friends had looked forward
to four or five years of study for him.
and it was a little disconcerting to find
him so soon on the road to independ-
ence. Richard Brown has, however,
no disposition to overestimate his early
success. The same clear flame that
saved him before saves him still. He
only rejoices that he is able to be inde-
pendent and that he sees, not very far
off, the possibility of helping others.
It was not long after the desperate
pilgrimage to the studio of Mr. Brush
that the young artist came in contact
with the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People, and the
members of the society were among his
earliest friends and admirers in New
York. It is, therefore,^ the privilege of
The Crisis to give the first public repro-
duction of the work of which, the critics
say, so much may be heard later—for,
fortunately, one may write of Richard
Brown frankly, since he has that heaven-
sent gift—abiilty to see his own short-
comings.
Mr. W. Rothenstein. the well-known
English artist’, says of him: “The young
artist was a charming fellow, and his
work has very real and rare qualities.
I was greatly pleased with it and pray
that the naivete and sincerity it shows
will not be lost. He has a very precious
gift—a vision all his own of nature
which has a touching quality of beauty.
I pray that he may be able to keep it.
He wants all the encouragement he can
get.”
Although he lives, apparently, only for
his art, it does not fill all the corners of
Richard Brown's heart. He cares deeply,
too, for his race, and he thinks much of
its present of persecution and its pos-
sible future of success, especially along
the lines of art. Artistic by instinct the
white American is not, but the black
American certainly is. No one disputes
his musical talent and the day may not
be long off when in painting, also, he
will begin to be a factor. He needs the
right environment to develop, like all
other human beings, but here and there
some gifted boy or girl by force of
determination will find it as Richard
Brown has done. To be able, some day,
to help them is his greatest ambition.
The Chicago conference should be a
matter of first importance to association
members. For the fourth time we shall
meet to discuss the Negro problem in
America. New York and Boston have
had notable gatherings, but we hope
that, with our increased membership and
our more central location, Chicago will
have a larger conference than any that
has been held before.
The program is in formation. On
Sunday, April 28, the religious leaders
of the city—ministers, priests, rabbis—
are asked to speak on the national evil
of lynching. On Monday afternoon it
is hoped that Mr. Villard will be pres-
ent and will open the conference. He
will be followed by Dr. Du Bois, who
will give a lecture with lantern slides,
illustrative of conditions among the
Negroes in the United States. Monday
evening the meeting will be addressed
by Miss Julia Lathrop, of Hull House,
Chicago, Mr. I. M. Rubinow, Special
Agent, Bureau of Labor, Washington,
D. C., formerly of the Imperial Russian
Civil Service, and Mr. Chas. Edward
Russell. Tuesday morning representa-
tives from all the States are asked to
report on legal and political conditions
among the Negroes in their sections. On
Tuesday afternoon there will be a recep-
tion at Hull House to members and
their friends, and on Tuesday evening
the city Negro, with especial reference
to conditions in Chicago, will be the
topic for discussion. Altogether, we
can promise our audiences a thoughtful,
interesting presentation of the larger
aspects of the Negro problem in
America.
If members outside of Chicago, who
expect to be present, will communicate
with the secretary of the conference,
Mr. W. T. Allinson, 701 Fourteenth
Place, every effort will be made to
arrange for their stay in the city.
<1 The association has brought out
another pamphlet, “The Views of a
Southern Woman,” by Miss Adelene
Moffat; price two cents.
<J One of our board of directors, Mrs.
Mary Church Terrell, spoke recently on
the color question at Radcliffe College
and at the Boston English High School.
The principal of the high school wrote
to our president. Mr. Moorfield Storey:
“The girls were very much interested in
what Mrs. Terrell said, and I am sure
her address will help them to deal fairly
with colored girls when they come in
contact in after life." Dean Briggs also
wrote that Mrs. Terrell made a strong
impression and had an excellent audi-
ence. The N. A. A. C. P. is forming a
lecture committee that shall begin this
spring making engagements for its mem-
bers to speak during the coming year.
Work of this character has been done
from the office, but a more comprehen-
sive plan is necessary if we are to come
before the public as we should.
<3 The Lewis incident, mentioned under
“Opinion," has attracted considerable
attention. The association wrote to
Attorney-General Wickersham, thank-
ing him for his determined stand
against the illegal procedure practiced
upon Mr. Lewis; and to the president
of the American Bar Association, Mr.
S. S. Gregory, protesting against the
color discrimination which he showed
clearly, from his own statement, was
the only reason for attempting to annul
Mr. Lewis’s election. We regret that,
owing to a clerical error, one of our let-
ters which received considerable pub-
licity was addressed to the president of
the New York Bar Association, Mr.
Lewis Cass Ledyard, who was not con-
cerned in the controversy.
<3 We have received a number of letters
congratulating us on our protest. Dr.
Stephen S. Wise, of the Free Syna-
gogue, New York, writes to our chair-
man: “I have wanted to write to you
for some days in order to tell you how
I rejoice in your fine and strong appeal
to the president of the American Bar
Association." Mrs. Diana Belais, presi-
dent of the Anti-Vivisection Society,
writes: “I thank you heartily for hav-
ing written this letter, and I beg that
you may push the matter to the utmost
limit, because a victory in this instance
would, I think, mean a very, very great
victory to this oppressed race." Our
final word is that of the Boston Com-
mon which asks: “Dare the American
Bar Association assert that a man who
is fit to be a law officer of the United
States is unfit to be a member of its
body, just because, by accident of birth,
THE N. A. A. C. P.
259
his color is black? Let us have a
straightforward answer to this ques-
tion*.”
9 By the middle of April the association
will move into larger quarters in the
Evening Post Annex, 26 Vesey Street.
The difficulty of carrying on the work
of a National Association and editing
and mailing a magazine that now prints
22,500 copies has been stupendous.
9 Forty-nine persons joined the asso-
ciation in February, paying $189 in mem-
berships. Twenty were from New York,
fifteen from Massachusetts, ten from
New Orleans and four from the West.
<3 The meeting in Washington, D. C., in
the interests of the N. A. A. C. P. was
an overwhelming success, and reflects
extraordinary credit on its efficient
organizers, among whom that indefatig-
able worker, Mrs. Carrie W. Clifford,
may be specially named without dis-
paraging the many others who co-op-
erated toward securing the gratifying
result. The gathering was held in the
Metropolitan A. M. E. Church, on Tues-
day evening, March 19, 1912, the audi-
ence numbering more than a thou-
sand, and including many of the leaders
in the social, educational, industrial and
professional life of the colored people
of the city. Judge Wendell P. Stafford,
of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, presided. Music was furnished
by the Howard Glee Club. A telegram
of regret from Dr. W. E. B. Du Bois was
read, sickness having prevented his at-
tendance. The speakers were Professor
Joel N. Spingarn, Miss Martha Gruening
and Mr. James F. Morton, Jr., all of New
York City. Professor Spingarn aroused
tremendous interest through his account
of the aggressive work of the associa-
tion against specific acts of discrimina-
tion and injustice, dwelling especially on
the work of the New York branch and
the successes of the New York Vigilance
Committee in enforcing the provisions
of the Civil Rights Law.
Mr.'Morton dwelt on the basic prin-
ciples of agitation and education on
behalf of human rights, and on the work
of the association in counteracting the
agencies devoted to the spread of race
prejudice. Miss Gruening presented an
admirable summary of the varied activ-
ities of the association ‘ not covered by
the other speakers, calling special atten-
tion to the publication of The Crisis, the
encouragement of such artistic talent as
that of Richard Brown, the rising colored
painter, the investigations into lynching
and other forms of work.
Rev. J. M. Waldron then brought the
whole matter to a focus by an appeal tor
personal work, to begin then and there.
A lively response was manifested. Many
subscriptions were taken to The Crisis,
and a number of memberships secured to
the N. A. A. C. P., for which a special
collection was also taken. A large num-
ber signified in writing their intention
to affiliate actively with the incipient
local branch, and a meeting for perma-
nent organization and for mapping out
district lines of work will be called in
the near future.
HISTORIC DAYS IN APRIL
3.	Negro troops enter Richmond,
1865.
4.	Richard Allen and Absalom Jones
organized the first Negro aid and bene-
ficial society, 17S7.
5.	Report of commission sent to San
Domingo to investigate the question of
annexation sent to Congress, 1S71.
6.	Second Continental Congress
passed resolution against importation of
slaves. 1776.
7.	Lewis Hayden, fugitive slave and
tireless worker for the advancement of
the Negro, died, 1SS9.
8.	New York prohibits slave trade,
iSOl.
9.	Lyman Trumbull’s Civil Rights
Bill, which gave the Negro status in the
courts of the United States, became law,
IS 66.
11. Richard Allen, first bishop of the
African Methodist Episcopal Church,
consecrated, 1S16.
*12. Battle of Fort Pillow, 1S64.
14.	First abolition society in the
United States organized, 1775.
15.	Abraham Lincoln died, 1865.
16.	Emancipation in the District of
Columbia by act of Congress, providing
for compensation of slaveholders. 1S62.
17.	Robert G. Shaw commissioned
colonel of the 54th Massachusetts Regi-
ment, 1863.
IS. Reconstruction constitution of
Louisiana ratified. 1S6S.
19.	Oberlin, O., founded, 1S33.
20.	Anti-Ku-Klux Act approved,
1871.
23. Gen. Benjamin F. Butler offers to
suppress servile insurrection in Mary-
land, 1861.
27. Toussaint L*ouverture died, 1803.
30. The Fifteenth Amendment pro-
posed, 1866.
L. M. Hershawl
The road followed part of the way
between rows of stone walls on either
side that enclosed meadows and fields,
and groups of little woods straggling
along, until they began to border the
road with tall trees when the stone walls
stopped. The trees stood bare in the
crisp, still air at the top of the liill where
the road began to descend, their
branches tracing the lemon and orange
of the western sky as I left them behind
me; a low murmur of sighing winds
mingled with the cracking of dry bark
which sounded fainter and fainter as I
descended where the woods abruptly
ended. Before me lay the sea to the
southeast, and circling the southern
shore jagged cliffs fortified the sloping
land against centuries of assaulting and
angry foam. The sandy beach formed a
crescent eastward, along which the road
separated it from the alternate swamp,
meadow and neld, stretching to the out-
skirts of the town in the distance that
lay south and west, meeting the open
uplands and valleys to the north.
Going down where the ocean lay at
my feet, I inhaled a full breath of its
pungent odors, and turned around to
look upon the scene that silhouetted
itself against the vivid western sky. On
the crest of the hill the naked tree
trunks cut their dark shadows into the
infinitude of the heavens, and seemed
not terrestrial things that had very firm
roots in this earth. Already the rosy
tinge reflected from the departed sun
was filling the spaces between the trees,
contrasting its delicate, immaterial color
against the sombre hilltop. I turned
from the miracle of the west to the mys-
tery of the cast; to the earth and sea
and sky, melting their outlines, their
definite and sharp formations of wave
and rock and cloud, into the obliterating
dusk creeping insistently from the east.
A white sail stood against the obscurity
bravely for a while, just above the
horizon, where the green wall of the sea
was fast changing to dark purple. First,
its reflection of a slant of crimson from
the west faded, then the gleaming sail
itself became dimmer and dimmer until
it melted into the afterglow. The mea-
dows and fields kept their character
longer than the sea. When the sun or
moon is shining on the sea at any angle
it is full of wonderful changes; atmos-
phere, clouds and winds give it color
and motion and mood; twilight gathers
all these effects into one modulation of
tone and feeling, full of suggestion and.
spiritual symbolism, before passing into
the monotone of night's darkness. It is
different with the land. The slant of
meadow and field, the delicate, shim-
mering outlines of distant hills against
the sky, the pointed tops of trees, hol-
lows and rocks, and winding roads,
reflect by some inexplicable magic their
shadowy presences against the soft suf-
fusion of the dusk. The atmosphere
becomes a woven veil of shadows; the
wind undulates it as if the spirit of
nature breathed meditatively through
the changing hour, that was conscious
in itself of that deeper change beneath
appearances from which the seasons are
born. And so I looked upon the land
and saw Nature, as it were, in her pri-
vate chamber of dreams, and felt vaguely
the sea, passionate in its tranquil unrest,
its innumerable and unending waves like
a silent army of soldiery stealing upon
the sleeping shores of the world.
It was neither day nor night; it was
the pause between, the suspension of
twilight. There was no sound, for the
murmur of the waves upon the sands
and the sigh of low winds that ran over
the sere grass, mingled and became
silence to that tense and physical passiv-
ity when all the senses become but one
sense of spiritual feeling and vision. I
walked on over the hardening road
where neither man nor beast broke upon
my solitude. I was conscious of no
motion; I seemed to have fallen in with
the rhythm of silence that bore me .in
perfect harmony with earth. There was
the realization of not being alone, of
having companions that the sound of
TWILIGHT
261
my lips could not reach, nor my hands
touch, but who crowded my memory
with images and filled my imagination
with voices. I paused often and turned,
as if to answer some question, just to
catch a shadow settling along the ridge
beside the road, and nothing beyond but
the dim gray-blue silence for miles. I
had kept my eyes leveling the landscape,
discerning the contour of the road,
defining against the distance a track of
foam that marked the rim of the sea, but
now, lifting them to the sky, I discov-
ered a point of light breaking through
the atmosphere; it twinkled and van-
ished, but gazing steadily, I saw it burst
a white flame, the first star burning
against the shadow of the sky. I
watched a cluster bloom and shoot their
javelin points of radiance into an infinity
of silence. Turning my eyes to earth
again, everything had drawn closer; the
sea seemed to wash its liquid presence
around my feet, my hands felt the hill-
tops pressing their vague strength
through the gloom, and the roadside
fields rose in the foreground to shut out
the rumblings of humanity. The light
waned and the dusk began to menace.
I had been lifted for one minute above
time and eternity; I had felt the fore-
gathering of all existence in the visible
delay of night and day. The passage of
the ivory gates had been traversed, and
I saw the meaning of many things that
had puzzled and escaped me in the
crowded streets of cities. For I read
clear in the twilight pause that was now
a swift surrender, the secret at the heart
of humanity. I had gone upon that twi-
light walk the messenger of man's mys-
tery, his inexplicable relationship to
nature, his still more subtle and inex-
plicable relationships with his kind. His
very existence seemed to me symbolized
in that scene of*earth and sea. The
presence of man exiled from it, nothing
could be realized without his memory or
the memory of him. Brain and will and
spirit, he dominated the solitude and
silence, the inviolable regularity of
earth’s rhythm, the law of wind and
wave, all these worked according to his
necessity, harnessed themselves to his
perpetuation.
The.re was no more day. The darkness
completely swallowed the hills; now and
then a dull washing of waves upon the
sands told me where the sea heaved its
naked breast to the stars that spangled
the wide heavens. The earth was in
secret, hiding her memories in the
silence and obscurity of night. I stood
with no questioning spirit. I was satis-
fied to be, assured and confident of what
was to be. The twilight I had known
was the womb of time that conceived
to-morrow, and I knew that man’s life
was the womb that carried the seed of
immortality.
Conducted by Jessie Fauset
“Letters to Unknown Friends.” Lyman
Abbott in the Outlook, January 20,
1912.
Who says there is nothing new under
the sun? Here comes Dr. Lyman Ab-
bott with an entirely original exposition
of the parable of the Good Samaritan
and the man who had fallen among
thieves.
For, he says, just as a man has a
doubtful, if any, right to bring into his
home an obnoxious guest, just so it is a
moral blunder to introduce into a white
or a Christian or a Protestant school
—the school being merely a larger
home—a Negro, or a Jew, or a Roman
Catholic. These last, in the opinion of
this white Gentile Protestant divine,
evidently constitute, by the mere fact
of their color, nationality and religion,
the obnoxious guests. “This is not” (we
quote, and the italics are ours) “the way
to promote the spirit of human brother-
hood. It is not recorded that the Good
Samaritan took the zvounded traveler into
his own home. He took him to an inn.”
Surely we are behind the times then
if we think this parable was meant to
teach the lesson of charity to all. Let us,
with Dr. Abbott, learn to consider it
merely the prototype of American ex-
pediency.
“Robert Gould Shaw.” William James.
Oration delivered May 31, 1S97, upon
the unveiling of the Shaw monument.
Reprinted in his “Memories and
Studies,” 1911. Longmans, Green &
Co.
262
THE CRISIS
The oration is a masterpiece, not only
in its rare felicity of expression, but also
in the genuineness of the tribute which
is paid to this hero. We do not think
of Shaw too often, and many of us do
not recognize to its full extent the
pathos, the glory and the sacrifice of
his beautiful young life. All this Mr.
James sets before us with a new and
vivid meaning. Think of a young man
—he was only twenty-five—a favorite in
a favored regiment, secure of his
advance as a white man in a white man’s
war, suddenly flinging aside ambition,
social position, assured preferment, to
establish the honor of the despised and
subject race which comprised the rank
and file of the 54th Massachusetts!
This even more than the loss of his life
may be accounted the supreme sacrifice.
How well he taught his new command
to do their duty is shown by that mem-
orable attack on Fort Wagner, in which
Shaw led from first to last and in which
five-twelfths of those gallant black sol-
diers followed their brave young leader
to a glorious death.
It is impossible to read the oration
without being struck by the singular
appositeness of Mr. James’ remarks to
some of our latter-day conditions. Take,
for instance, the following memorable
passage:
“The deadliest enemies of nations are
not their foreign foes; they always dwell
within their borders. And from these
internal enemies civilization is always in
need of being saved. The nation blest
above all nations is she in whom the
civic genius of the people does the sav-
ing day by day, by acts without external
picturesqueness; by speaking, writing,
voting reasonably; by smiting corrup-
tion swiftly; by good temper between
parties; by the people knowing true men
when they see them, and preferring
them as leaders to rabid partisans or
empty quacks. Such nations have no
need of war to save them. Their
accounts with righteousness are always
even; and God’s judgments do not have
to overtake them fitfully in bloody
spasms and convulsions of the race.”
“God’s judgments!” How these words
spoken in 1897 leap forward to meet the
terrible needs of 1912!
“New Slavery at the South.” A Negro
nurse in the Independent for Tanuary
25, 1912.
The “old, unhappy, far-off things” of
slavery are not so far away after all
This wail from a Negro nurse shows
how very much they are still with us.
This woman is over forty years of age
and she has been a servant in one
capacity or another for thirty of those
years. Her experience, which follows in
brief, is that, she declares, of two-thirds
of the Negroes of her town.
She lives “at service.” Generally she
works from fourteen to sixteen hours a
day. Here is what she docs: She
nurses a little white child of eleven
months, acts as playmate to the other
three children, waters the lawn, sweeps
the sidewalk, mops the porch and halls,
dusts around, helps the cook, darns the
stockings, is allowed a Sunday after-
noon otf once in two weeks, never goes
to church, a lecture or an entertainment.
She gets no consideration—for instance,
in all those forty-odd years she has
never been called Miss or Mrs. by any
white person. The first name that
occurs to her master or mistress will do
for her, and if no name occurs there is
always the term “nigger.” Incidentally
she, and the class of Negro women of
whom she is the type, is expected—this,
she cries, is the burden that lies heaviest
on her heart—to submit graciously to
any advances that her madam’s husband
or son may choose to make. She is the
slave, body and soul, of the family for
which she works.
Why doesn’t she leave her “place,” or
save up her money and come away?
Well, to begin with, before she had been
in a new position twenty-four hours she
would find that her old employer had
sent over the telephone an account of
her character and ability that would
necessitate another change. And as to
saving money—how much could you
save if you, like her, received ten dollars
a month for wages and were a widow
with three children? Is it any wonder
that she cries out for help, sympathy and
the protection the law denies? As a last
resort, she calls for aid on the Southern
women, if only in their own defense,
since it is their children that she and all
these other poor slaves are rearing. Is
it not “inevitable that the lives of these
children will in sorpe measure be pure
or impure, according as they are affected
by contact with their colored nurses?”
“Human Nature in Hawaii.” Ray Stan-
nard Baker in the American for Janu-
ary, 1912.
The subtitle of this article explains
the entire situation in Hawaii. It runs:
“How the Few Want the Many to Work
for Them—Perpetually, and at Low
Wages.” Mr. Baker characteristically
states the facts as they are and gives us
a frank exposition of the white man’s
effort to exploit the brown. It makes
interesting reading and one learns
afresh that American law seems made
to be juggled with. “One important
official,” writes Mr. Baker, “said to me
boldly and naively: ‘You see, these
young Japanese born in the islands
under the law are as much citizens as
we are. They are, therefore, entitled to
take up homesteads. The problem with
us is to interpret the law so that none
of them can get in.’ ” That last sen-
tence has a familiar ring.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
263
The
National Religious Training
School and Ch autauqua
extends a cordial greeting to the ministers of all denominations
to be the guests of the School for one week, beginning July
6, 1912, for the purpose of discussing the following and
kindred questions:
What is the moral condition of the people in your community?
Is crime on the increase? If not, what was the cause of its
reduction?
What is the sanitary condition? What effort, if any, has
been made to improve the sanitary condition?
Is the death rate increasing?
To what extent do you co-operate with the Civic Improvement
Leagues?
Has settlement work been conducted to any extent in your
community, and with what results?
What has been the effect of Temperance Organizations, and
have you co-operated with them?
To what extent has the work of the Y. M. C. A. and
Y. W. C. A. been effective in your community? Do
you approve them?
What is the general fitness of the city and country school
teacher?
What has been the attitude of the day-school teacher toward
the Church and Sunday School?
What is the real religious condition of your people? Revivals,
how conducted?
All ministers who intend attending this Conference should
make it known at an early date, addressing the President, so
that reservation can be made for them.
The Summer School and Chautauqua of the National
Religious Training School will open July 3, 1912, and
continue for six weeks. The most complete and most up-to-
date Summer School for the Colored Race in the United
States. For particulars and terms address
President JAMES E. SHEPARD
DURHAM. N. C.
Mention Thi Crisis.
2e>4
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
WO A DAY
Ono Good Hustling Agent Wanted
in every community to take orders for
our eolebratod made-to-measure
clothe.-*. You make big profits—S-.W) to
00 on every suit. Write us before
e got an agent in your territory
ill you will receive an astonish-
hr offor. No money, no experi-
nce necessary.
WE START YOU FREE
Wo furnish you with every-
thing and placo you in a business
of your own that will mean
from $l,SOO to $3,000 a
year to you. Easiest and
most profitable buslnoss
In tho world. Every man
in your vicinity a possible
customer. Our low prices
nnd able assistance
get the trade for you.
PANTS $2i
I UP
Wb Prepay Expres*
_	. ,	Every garment cut
and made to measure in latest city style, perfect fit
guaranteed. Money refunded if goods are not satis-
factory. Boautllul Sample Outfit, order blanks,
tape line, FREE. With our complete instructions you
can tako measurements as accurately as any tauor.
Write for your territory and outfit today.
THE PROGRESS TAILORING CO., 185 Harrison Street, Chicago
REGALIA
A RACE ENTERPRISE
Manufacturing Badges, Banners and
Supplies for all Fraternal and Church
Societies. Catalogue upon request.
CENTRAL REGALIA CO.
Jos. L. Jones, Pres.
N. E. Cor. 8th and Plum Streets
Cincinnati, Ohio
$65.00
A value unequaled. Sold on
Si.00	Profit Margin. Write
for prices and other styles.
Send for catalog.
C. R. Patterson & Sons
GREENFIELD, OHIO
Largest Negro carriage concern In the United StataJ
The May number will contain
illustrated articles on three General
Conferences which convene during
the month of May.
MAYERS’ INDUSTRIAL SCHOOL
BOARDING AND DAY SCHOOL
For the industrial, literary, moral and religious
training of the Negro youth.
Terms reasonable.
For particulars address
FLORA E. MAYERS, Principal
606 Payne Street	Knoxville, Tenn.
LEGAL DIRECTORY
J. DOUGLAS WETMORE
Attobmxy akd Counsblob-at-Law
5 Beckman Street (Temple Court)
New York City
Tel. 6222 Cortlandt	Cable Address, Judowet
FREDERICK L. McGHEE
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Union Block, Fourth and Cedar Streets
St. Paul, Minn.
General Practice	Notary Public
WILLIAM R. MORRIS
Attobmcy and Counsklor-at-Law
1020 Metropolitan Life Building
Minneapolis, Mian.
Real Eetate and Probate Matters k Specialty
ROBERT B. BARCUS
Attorney and Counsblor-at-Law
Notary Public
Office: Room 502, Eberly Block Columbus, O.
B.	S. SMITH
Attobnky and Counsklor-at-Law.
Offices: Suite 610, Sykes Block
Minneapolis, Minn.
GEORGE W. MITCHELL
Attornxy-at-Law
908 Walnut Street
Philadelphia, Pa-
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
265
A PAGE OF ADVERTISEMENTS FOR WOMEN
KELSEY’S
Human Hair Goods and
Hair Preparations
Have stood the test for years. All
the latest styles in Braids, Trans-
formations. Puffs, Toupees, Wigs,
etc., carefully matched to a sample
of your hair, and beautifully made.
Only the best hair used in manu-
facturing.
KELSEY’S Hair Grower and
Dressing, made of the purest Hair
and Scalp foods, relieves the Scalp
of all of the many diseases for
which it is subject, causing the
Hair to become soft and healthy,
and POSITIVELY prevents its
falling out.
Puffs, Braids and Transforma-
tions, $1 up.
Hair Grower and Dressing, $1.
Send sample of Hair for price quotation
S. A. & A. C. KELSEY
328 Lenox Avenue New York City
Sunlight at Night
| _ I Our new Inverted gas burner. 300-candle-
,	power light, made of steel enameled white,
fr.	with white crystal globe, burns 3^4 cubic
V	1 feet of gas per hour. Perfect combusUon,
never smokes if properly regulated.
Also our Sun-Ray Kerosene ManUe Burn-
ers. 100-candle-power light. One quart of
kerotene lasts 16 hours. Money back If
not as represented. Particulars free.
Simplex Gaslight Co.. Dept. C. New York
Telephone 3253 Harlem
CARPET CLEANING
Cleaners and Renovators
For Particular People
New York Careful Cleaning Bureau
12 WEST 135th STREET
We make a specialty of cleaning and renovating
carpets, rugs, portieres and upholstered furniture;
we also vacuum clean in the home. We are not
the largest carpet cleaner in the world, but abso-
lutely the most careful in every detail.
SHAMPOOING CARPETS AND RUGS OUR
SPECIALTY
Odessa Millinery
41 W. 135th Street	New York
Started as the first; still leading
in all advanced Parisian Millinery.
Telephone 62-1 Harlem
BEAUTIFUL ART EXHIBIT
Miss Cora Van Schoick is conducting a sale
and exhibit of unusual interest at the CLIO
SCHOOL. 487 6th Avenue, between 29th and 30th
Streets, New York.
There is on S3le hand-painted china and pil-
low tops, hand-made opera bags, pin cushions and
novelties. These hand creations are suggestive
for gifts and interior decorations.
SOMETHING NEW
SIMPLEX
Dept. A.
Our buffet lamp, all brass, burns
kerosene. Suitable for all social
functions. Repousee, brass shade.
Linen cuirass lining with silk
fringe in six colors: makes a
beautiful gift. Useful as night
lamp. Stands 11 inches high and
is weighted at bottom so as to
stand. A very fine table decora-
tion. By mail, postpaid, 80 cents
each. Per dozen, $6.
GASLIGHT COMPANY
NEW YORK
8. A. KELSEY, Pres.	DR. WM. J. CARTER, Chiropodist. MME. A. 0. KELSEY, Gen’l lnstr.
The Kelsey School of Beauty Culture and Hair Dressing
328 Lenox Avenue, New York City
Manicuring, Shampooing, Hair Dressing, Beauty Culture, Hair Making and
Chiropody scientifically taught. Day and night sessions. Instructions given to
pupils in their own homes if desired. Diplomas awarded. Send for booklet-
directory of recently graduated students.
Mention The Crisis.
266
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
The Meeting Place of Business and Proficiency
A professional man advertised in THE CRISIS for a partner with capital. The
profession is one that offers little encouragement to colored men and yet he writes:
“Kindly stop the advertisement in THE CRISIS, as my want has
been filled. Wo appreciate the very good results (from THE CRISIS)
and will forward check on the 15th.* *
A large corporation advertised in THE CRISIS for a general manager with capital.
The wording of their advertisement eliminated all inquirers save those with capital
and experience. They write:
“We believe that one of the parties is really interested in our
proposition and will close with him in a few days. **
They “closed** with him and have since advertised-for other high-grade help.
There is our story in a nutshell.
Those who require high-grade help should use our “Help Wanted** columns, and
those who are trained or experienced as high-grade helpers should advertise their
services where they may reach the largest number of possible employers.
THE CRISIS CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING SERVICE IS THE
MEETING PLACE OF BUSINESS AND PROFICIENCY
HELP WANTED
Agents—Big looney
Selling our seven-
piece combination
kitchen set, made up
of articles absolutely
n e e d e d in every
household. They sell
on sight. Mr. Jarvis
sold fifty sets in one
day. Serul $1 for
sample. Sent prepaid
to uny address in
United States or
Canada. Also our improved Slide well Casters for
• ti.nr ., win-li sell to everybody everywhere. Set
of four sent postpaid for 15 cento.
BUSSING-WHEATON CO.
23 PARK ROW DEPT. A NEW YORK
AGENTS WANTED for the most rapid-selling
Negro sheet pictures on earth; every man and
woman will buy on sight—no talking—the
pictures sell themselves. Write to-day for
free sample and circulars.
CRESCENT NOVELTY CO.
423 E. KING ST.	Bedford City, Va.
AGENTS make big money selling our Negro
pictures, size 10 x 20. ‘‘Jesus Died for
Both," “Clinging to the Cross,” “Protecting
Angel,” “Booker T. Washington," “Heaven-
ward,” “A Mother’s Joy,” “Inspiration,’’
“Mama, I Love You,” “Jack Johnson."
Catalog free. Peoples Portrait Co., 710 W.
Madison St., Dopt. C, Chicago. 111.
‘Phone: Harlem, 6370
Middlesex Employment Agency
Offers you the benefit of its experience, gained
by years of actual conduct of business and the
prestige that comes from a large clientele of
satisfied patrons.
Our rigid investigation of references keeps our
standard high. Mail orders solicited.
2229 Fifth Avenue, near 136th Street,
New York.
RELIABLE HELP at all times for the most
discriminating employers.
Out-of-town correspondence invited.
References thoroughly investigated
Address:
MISS I. L. MOORMAN
4 63 Lenox Avenue	New York
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
267
AGENTS WANTED
$25.00 PER WEEK
may be made in commissions by parties hand-
ling “History of Negro Soldiers in Spanish-
Amorican War’’ combined with “History of the
Negro Race.’’ 400 pages, 50 illustrations.
Price $1.25 net. Address
E. A. JOHNSON
154 Nassau Street	New York
PATENTS
L. H. LATIMER
MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEER
and
SOLICITOR OF PATENTS
55 John Street	New York
Inventions Perfected, Models and Experi-
mental Machines Designed and Constructed.
Technical Translations.
Telephone 343 John	Room 604
AGENTS—$60 IN 6 DAYS
This Is tbe report of Mr.
Edw. Carney, one of our
Agents. You can do as
well selling our Daisy
Safety Itazor. Sample by
mall 25 cents. Per dozen
$2.00—12 New Sharp Keen
Blades 35 cents. All post-
paid. Guaranteed. Money
back If not as represented. Territory Koinx fast. Start
at once. Other money makers as welL Particulars free.
BUSSING-WHEATON CO.. Ino.. Dopt. C
23 Park Row	New York
MEN AND WOMEN WANTED
to sell beautiful Art Pictures of Negro
subjects. Our agents are coining money
on these pictures.
Three sample pictures by mail, 35 cents.
Ten sample postcards by mail, 6 cents.
Address: JACOB GRIFFITH
252 W. 53d Street	New York
REAL ESTATE
Valuable Texas Lands
For Sale
Large tracts of farm land in the best local-
ities of the State for sale at very flattering
prices. Small tracts for good lands suitable for
farming, truck, fruits and any domestic product.
We have for sale a number of large farms al-
ready in cultivation, good houses and barns,
wells, and nice pasture lands, which can be
obtained at reasonable rates. City property a
specialty. Business lots in the best part of
the city, improved and unimproved. Large lots
suitable for factory property with switch
facilities.
No investment can be more valuable than an
Investment in Texas real estate. Lands are be-
coming so valuable that they are doubling
themselves in value in less than a year’s time.
For any investment in Texas property, write
T. B. Madison Real Estate Company, 2415 Elm
Street. Dallas, Texas.
T(0> Colored People
FOR SALE—We have houses from $1,000 to
$30,000. Our city is the capital of Ohio
and a great manufacturing center—plenty of
work, a good place to locate for business. Can
sell you a house for $50. $100 to $500 down,
balance like rent. For investment and specu-
lating houses or business places, $1,000 to
$5,000 down, balance on long time payment.
Farm land prices from $1,000 to $10,000 up.
Any of these are in good locations. Write for
further information
THIS IS A COLORED ENTERPRISE
EDWARD A. SHANKLIN
Read Estate
1218Lj Ml. Vernon Ave. Columbus. Oblo
Mention Th
FURRIER
Seventeen Years’ Experience
WORK TURNED OUT PROMPTLY
MRS. G. B. NEEDLES
Late with Broadway houses
PRACTICAL FURRIER
All kinds of furs remodelled, repaired and re-
lined. White furs cleaned, equal to new. Coats
guaranteed to flt. Prices reasonable.
24 WE8T 135TH STREET	NEW YORK
MUSIC
HELEN ELISE SMITH
CONCERT PIANIST
Post-Graduate of the Institute of Musical Art
Pupil of Sigismund Stojowski
Teacher of Plano. Theory, Ear-training, etc.
224 EAST 86TH STREET. NEW YORK CITY
INSURANCE
Telephone 1393 Worth	*
E. O. BUSSING
Fire, Life, Plate Glass and Casualty
Insurance
320 BROADWAY	New York City
Suite 723
BOOKS
The Curse of Race Prejudice
James F. Morton, Jr., A.M., Author and Publisher
Forceful, rational, comprehensive. An arsenal
of facts and unanswerable arguments. Invaluable
for propaganda. Read the chapter on “The Bug-
bear of Social Equality,’’ which is a veritable
eye-opener. Thousands already sold. Agents
wanted everywhere.
PRICE 25 CENTS
Address the Author at 244 West 143d Street.
New York, N. Y.
The May number of THE CRISIS will
be the General Conference number.
ORDER TO-DAY.
e Crisis.
268
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
ARE/jYOU INTERESTED
1 Din THEjIfll
NEGRO PROBLEM
ORA7 /
BOORS "TT HAGAZINE
THE
I
STUDENTS OF THE NEGRO PROBLEM
The Souls of Black Folk, DuBois
History of the Negro • Washington
John Brown ■	■ DuBois
Up From Slavery ■	■ Washington
Poems of Paul Laurence
Dunbar
Poems of W. S. Braith-
waite
Race Adjustment • Miller
Negro In the New World, Johnston
Following the Color Line, Baker
Works of Charles W.
Chestnut!
Atlanta University Studies
Merriam
Negro and the Nation
Negro In the South ■
J Washington
1 DuBois
Sinclair
Ovington
Aftermath of Slavery •
Half a Man . •
Life of Harriet Beecher
Stowe • • - . Stowe
Mind of Primitive Man, Boaz
Race Prejudice • • Finot
Curse of Race Prejudice, Morton
Quest of the Silver Fleece,
a novel -	-	- DuBois
Through Afro - America, Archer
Southern South ■ • Hart
Inter-Racial Problems, Official Record
of the Universal Races Congress
i
THE CRISIS
A RECORD OF TIIE DARKER RACES
And general readers will
find this list embraces the
most popular and compre-
hensive studies of the Negro
question. They are the
best books by the bejf
writers and thinkers. By
special arrangements with
the publishers of the books
we are in position to make
combination offers at re-
markably low prices. This
offer is good for a limited
time only and is made to
increase the subscription
list of
THE CRISIS
the magazine edited by
\V. EL B. DuBois with the co-operation of Oswald Garrison
Villard, Charles ELJward Russell. Kelly Miller and
others. The Crisis is the organ of the National As-
sociation For the Advancement of Colored People
and is a record of every important happening and
movement in the world which bears on the great
problems of inter racial relations and especially
those which affect the Negro American
OUR OFFER:
To the
Publishers
of the CRISIS.
20 Vesey Street
New York City.
Please send,
We have made special combinations	Gentlemen.
with these books in sets of five, ten, fif-	,
.	.	.,	, without any cost to
teen and twenty, together with a	,	•	•
/-O' me, your descriptive
year’s subscription toihcCrisis,	i	*	.i‘
* circular offering these
and will be glad to have the ^	^ of boob 0„	^
names and addresses of all/	Negro Problem and a
who find themselves / year’s subscription to the
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
269
Mutual Teachers’ Agency
(A Bureau for Colored Teachers)
Recommends teachers for schools; secures employment for
teachers. Now is the time to register. Blanks and infor-
mation furnished free on application. Local and long-
distance telephone, North 1625.
S.	M. KENDRICK, Secretary
1335 T STREET, N. W.	WASHINGTON, D. C.
Too, Too ! Too, Too ! Too, Too !
SOMETHING NEW
The Afro-American
Order ol Orioles
Witk a Graduated Scale o{ Endowment
For particulars write G. W. BLAND, H. S. P.
Telephone 421-1 Greeley
BRANIC’S EXPRESS
PACKING AND SHIPPING
ANDREW J. BRANIC
Formerly Manager Virginia Transfer Company
459 SEVENTH AVENUE	New York City
Orders by mail or ’phone receive prompt attention
TRUNKS STORED 25c. PER MONTH
Official Expressman for the C. V. B. A.
Ten Years with Dr. D. C. White
Telephone 71S9 Morningside
DR. JAMES A BANKS
DENTIST
204 WEST 133d STREET. NEW YORK
Porcelain, Crown and Bridge Work a Specialty
Pure Nitrous-Oxide Gas Administered
GOOD COMMISSION PAID TO
ORGANIZERS. JOIN NOW!
HOME OFFICE:
110# Colfax Ave., South Bend, Ind.
JUteslraU’H lioirl
COMFORT—Large, airy rooms, offering genuine home comforts plus the
conveniences and privileges of a modern hotel.
SERVICE—In the hotel and dining room the “Marshall" service is an excep-
tional feature, which assures comfort and pleasure for our patrons.
Restaurant open all night.	Cuisine to satisfy the most discriminating
VOCAL AND INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC EVERY EVENING
Breakfast, 7:30 to 12:30, 30c. Luncheon, 12:30 to 3, 30c. Dinner. 6 to 8. 35c.
Special Course Dinner Every Sunday and Holidays, 50c.
Telephones 4693 - 4694 Columbus	J* MARSHALL, Proprietor
THE SOUTHERN RESTAURANT
2229 Fifth Avenue
Bet. 135th and 136th Sts.
Real Home Cooking; Meals Served at All Hours.
REASONABLE RATES EXCELLENT SERVICE
Home-made Rolls Served Hot
Telephone 1721 Harlem
A Quiet Place for Quiet People to Sleep and Eat
THE BRADFORD
73 WEST lS4th STREET	NEW YORK
Bet. 5th and Lenox Aves.
FURNISHED ROOMS TO LET
(Transient)
MEALS AT ALL HOURS
John E. Bradford, Prop.
Mention The Crisis.
270
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
Five thousand dol-
lars endows s fre»
bed.
Andrew F. Steven*,
President.
Nathan F. Moseell. M.D.
Medical Director and
Superintendent.
Frederick Douglass Memorial Hospital and Training School, Philadelphia, Pa.
A limited number of
free beds maintained
for the worthy poor.
Other ward patients
maintained at $7.00
per week.
Private rooms can
be secured from
$12.00 to $30.00 per
week.
The training school
for nurses maintains
a two years’ course.
A high school cer-
tificate, or an edu-
cation sufficient to
be considered an
equivalent, necessary
for admission.
Underwood
Standard Typewriter
The original front stroke visible writing
typewriter.
A mechanical masterpiece and universal
favorite.
Underwood sales exceed those of any
other machine.
“The Machine You Will
Eventually Buy *
PAMPHLETS
Published by
The National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People
1.	Disfranchisement: A powerful argu-
ment by the Rev. John Haynes Holmes.
Price 5 cents.
2.	Education in the South: Facts about
the discrimination against the Negro. By
the Rev. Horace Bumstead, former presi-
dent of Atlanta University. Price 5 cents.
3.	The Real Race Problem: A scientific
comparison of the black and the white man
by America's foremost anthropologist,
Prof. Boas, of Columbia University. Price
5 cents.
4.	Social Control: By Jane Addams, of
Hull House. Price 1 cent.
5.	The Negro as a Soldier: By Briga-
dier-General Burt, U. S. A. Price 5 cents.
6.	Leaving It to the South: An experi-
ence and some conclusions by Charles
Edward Russell. Price 5 cents.
7.	Views of a Southern Woman: By
Adelene Moffat. Price 2 cents.
Underwood Typewriter Co.,
INCORPORATED
Underwood Building New York
Address
The Crisis Book Department
20 VESEY STREET	NEW YORK
Mention The Crisis.
Fourth Annual Conference
-------------of-------------
The National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People
--------- TO BE HELD AT ----
Chicago, 111., April 28, 29 and 30, 1912
Make your plans now to be present at the meet-
ings. One session to be given up to reports from the
various States represented.
The following speakers will deliver addresses:
CHARLES EDWARD RUSSELL
DR. W. E. B. DU BOIS
MISS JANE ADDAMS
All Association Members living outside of
Chicago, who find that they can attend the meetings,
will kindly send word to the secretary of the conference,
Mr. T. W. Allinson, 701 14th Place, Chicago.
We have members in twenty-nine States. We
want all of them represented.
For particulars regarding the meetings read the
N. A. A. C. P. notes in this number.
Before Your Letter Is Read
Your Stationery Has Given an Impression of You and Your Business
Your stationery is your representative.
As you would avoid having a shabbily dressed man as
your business representative, you should avoid cheap, ordinary
stationery.
.The stationery created in our print shop is distinctive
because each type formation is consistent with the texture,
weight and size of the paper and nature of the business.
Distinctive stationery carries with it a certain charm, which
adds power and effectiveness to your arguments and personality.
Mr. Conde Nast of Vogue, Dr. Du Bois of The Crisis and Prof. Spingarn of Columbia University are among our discriminating patrons, who appreciate the exclusive- ness of our printed things.		J. E. SPINGARN 9 west 73d street NEW YORK December 6, 1911. Mr. Robert N. Wood, 202 East 99th Street, City. My dear Mr. Wood: I enclose my cheque for $561.72, in full payment of the balance of my account in connection with the printing and distribu- tion of my pamphlet, “A Question of Academic Freedom.” 1 have not yet veri- fied the completeness of the distribution by the mailing company which you employed, but so far as your work as a printer is concerned, I take pleasure in saying that you attended to every detail in the most efficient and conscientious manner possible, and that 1 owe you cordial appreciation for the interest and care you have taken in this whole matter. You may use this letter in any way you please, and may refer to me any prospective client who is anxious to obtain the services of a first- class printer. Very truly yours, (Signed) J. E. Spingarn.	
			
The same careful attention is given to Wedding Invitations,
Personal Cards, Pamphlets, etc. Let us make an estimate on
your work.
Out-of-town orders receive our immediate attention.
Robert N. Wood, Printing and Engraving
202 EAST 99th STREET	NEW YORK CITY
'Phone Lenox 6667
Mention The Crisis.
Volu,
MAY. 1912
Number O i
%	...	.». ... .»................... .v....».......... .v.......»............. «»a*.	... .v..........
*>
(tthurrh Number
*>
v	*>
Colored Baptist Institutional Church, Jacksonville, Florida	*
ONE DOLLAR A YEAR	TEN CENTS A COPY
The BIGGEST SENSATION'*
in the shaving world since the first appearance of the
Safety Razor. The most amazing and fastest-selling
article of the age.
SJBP^Write for our FREE sample offer and confidential terms
and prices to agents.
The “Simplex” Automatic ltazor Stropper is an enconomical and practical
shaving device that appeals to every man who shaves. Nothing to wear out, nothing
to get out of order; it is absolutely guaranteed for life. Any four-year-old child can
operate it with perfect results. It will positively sharpen and keep sharp any old
style or safety razor in the world.
(m^F^It automatically hones and sharpens at the same time.
Fifteen years of serious and
never-tiring experimental tests,
combined with practical and
theoretical ideas and thoughts
concentrated into one endeavor,
evolves this sensational inven-
tion that has positively mod-
ernized home shaving for mod-
ern men in these modern times. The “Simplex” solves the
whole shaving problem. The ac-
curacy of this great shaving de-
vice is remarkable. It is built
upon scientific and mechanical
principles that take into account
every characteristic of a razor
edge. The absolute precision
with which each stroke is auto-
matically applied to the correct
bevel of the blade draws that
fine, straight, true, absolutely
perfect edge that can be ob-
tained by no other known
method. The “Simplex” is ab-
solutely reliable and positively
correct in design, material, con-
struction, finish and operation;
all agents are authorized to give
with every machine a life guar-
antee which is backed up by the
“Simplex” Co. Get busy to-day
and be the first in your section
to take hold of the agency.
Write immediately for full particulars and
free sample proposition.
gq^Our advertisement is appearing weekly in
400 publications of every nationality throughout
the United States and Canada. The returns we
are daily receiving indicate that we will sell
more than a million machines this year. Grasp
the opportunity and join the real money-makers.


I
- t
HUNTER C. HAYNES
Tin* Well-known Stropmaker
Address Dept. A.
SIMPLEX” STROPPER COMPANY
16-18 FERRY STREET	NEW YORK CITY
66
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS
A RECORD OF THE DARKER RACES
Published by the National Association for 20 Vesey Street,	the Advancement of Colored People, at New York City.	
W. E. BURGHARDT DU BOIS, Editor Nl. D. MACLEAN, Managing Editor FRANK M. TURNER, Circulation Manager ALBON L. HOLSEY, Advertising Manager	Contributing J Editors	)	OSWALD GARRISON VILLARD J. MAX BARBER CHARLES EDWARD RUSSELL W. S. BRAITHWAITE KELLY MILLER
Subscription: $1.00 a year; 50 cents for six months. Foreign subscriptions, 25 cents extra. Subscriptions to begin with current issue or changes of address must reach us before the 15th of the previous month.		
		
CONTENTS
PAGE
ALONG THE COLOR LINE........................... 7
MEN OF THE MONTH.............................. 14
OPINION ...................................... 17
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE.............................. 21
EDITORIAL .................................... 24
THE NEGRO-AMERICAN CHURCH..................... 28
SELF-RIGHTEOUS EUROPE AND THE WORLD. Correspondence
with Professor W. M. Flinders Petrie........ 34
WOMEN’S CLUBS................................. 38
THE BURDEN ................................... 39
HISTORIC DAYS IN MAY.......................... 40
WHAT TO READ.................................. 41
Agents wanted who can furnish references. Entered as second-class matter in the P. 0. at X. Y. City
4
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
I LIFE AND WORKS
PAUL	Lida Keck Wiggins
LAURENCE and Introduction
DUNBARS	W. Dean Howells
What the late Col. Robt. Ingersoll thought
of work:
220 Madison Ave.,
April, 1896, New York City.
My Dear Dr. Tobey:
At last 1 got the time to read the poems
of Dunbar. Some of them are really wonderful
—full of poetry and philosophy. I am
astonished at their depth and subtlety. Dun-
bar is a thinker. •'The Mystery” is a poem
worthy of the greatest. It is absolutely true
and proves that its author is a profound and
thoughtful man. “Ere Sleep Comes Down to
Soothe the Weary Eyes” is a wonderful poem;
the fifth verse is perfect,
j I have only time to say Dunbar is a genius.
Now what can be done for him ? I would like
to help.
Thanking you for the book, I remain,
)	Yours always,
R. G. INGERSOLL.
Postpaid, $2, $2.75, $3.75.
J. G. GUILES
214A St. Antoine Street Montreal, Can.
Atlanta University
Is beautifully located in the City of Atlanta, Ga.
The courses of study include High School, Nor-
mal School and College, with manual training
and domestic science. Among the teachers are
graduates of Yale, Harvard, Dartmouth, Smith
and Wellesley. Forty-one years of successful
work have been completed. Students come from
all parts of thev South. Graduates are almost
universally successful.
For further information address
President EDWARD T. WARE
ATLANTA, GA.
PUBLICATIONS
A.	M. E. Book Concern Philadelphia, Pa.
THE POEMS OF PHILLIS WHEATLEY.
Reprint of first edition 1773; a valuable book.
Price, $1.00.
THE NEGRO PROBLEM. An analysis: What
It Is Not nnd What It Is; by R. R. Wright, Jr.
In pamphlet form, 15 cents.
THE COLORED REGULARS. By T G. Steward,
Chaplain U. S. A., retired. Price, $1.50.
EVOLUTION AND LIFE. By Algernon B. Jack-
son, Surgeon-in-chief Mercy Hospital. Price, 75
cents.
THE NEGRO IN PENNSYLVANIA. A Study in
Economic History. By R. R. Wright, Jr., Sometime
Research Fellow in Sociology in the University of
Pennsylvania. Price, Paper, $2.00; Cloth, $2.50.
Address
*	A. M. E. BOOK CONCERN
631 Pine Street,	Philadelphia, Pa.
OF INTEREST TO
VOCAL STUDENTS
Tone Placing and
Voice Development
Practical method of singing for
daily practice, based upon artistic
principles, together with a care-
fully prepared number of exercises,
forming a comprehensive, progres-
sive and self-explained course in
voice building, which constitute the
technical side of the vocal art.
From “Musical Courier,” N. Y.: A very practical
little book is “Tone Placing and Voice Develop-
ment,” by Pedro T. Tinsley. As the preface sayB:
“It is for daily practice, based upon artistic princi-
ples, including a course in the art of breathing,
structure of the vocal apparatus, hearing the voice,
together with a carefully prepared number of vocal
exercises, forming a comprehensive, progressive and
self-explained course of voice building.” Written
by Pedro T. Tinsley, conductor of the Choral Club
of Chicago, and a man who has had many years'
experience in teaching voice. It contains some very
excellent material and vocal exercises, and should
bo in the hands of all vocal students. Price $1.
Address the publisher:
PEDRO T. TINSLEY
6448 Drexel Avenue CHICAGO, ILL.
>r Clayton F. Summy, 220 Wabash Avenue, and
Lyon & Healy, Adams & Wabash, Chicago, 111.
f
The
Qtmesfi
ofi filie
Silver
Fleece
A NOVEL
by
W. E. BURGBARDT
DU BOIS
Drawings by
H. S. DE LAY
Here is a story of the darker world
in the South and in Washington, D.
C.	It is dramatic in style and ab-
sorbing in interest and expresses the
feeling of colored people about them-
selves and their own problems; at the
same time it shows how both black
folk and white are caught in the
power of King Cotton.
AT ALL BOOKSTORES
PRICE $1.35 NET
A. C. McCLURG & CO.
New York Chicago San Francisco
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
5
FORWARD
march your son off to
Wilberforce University
The only school in the country for Negro
Youth which has a Military Department
equipped by the National Government, and
commanded by a detailed United States Army
Officer.
DEPARTMENTS
MILITARY	SCIENTIFIC
NORMAL	TECHNICAL
COMMERCIAL THEOLOGICAL
CLASSICAL	MUSICAL
PREPARATORY
Banking taught by the actual operations
in the Students’ Savings Bank. Twelve In-
dustries, 180 acres of beautiful campus, Ten
Buildings. Healthful surroundings, excep-
tional community. Maintained in part by the
State of Ohio which supplies facilities for the
thorough training of teachers.
Fall term began September 19th, 1911.
Write for Catalog.
w. s. SCARBOROUGH, President
WM. A. JOINER, Superintendent, C. N. I.
Department.
Address all communications to
BOX 36	WILBERFORCE, OHIO
Atlanta University
Studies of the
Negro Problems
15 Monographs. Sold Separately.
Address:
A. G. DILL
Atlanta University, Atlanta, Ga.
Knoxville College
Beautiful Situation, Healthful Location
The Best Moral and Spiritual Environment
A Splendid Intellectual Atmosphere
Noted for Honest and Thorough Work
Offers full courses in the following departments:
College. Normal, High School, Grammar School and
Industrial.
Good water, steam heat, electric lights, good
drainage. Expenses very reasonable.
Opportunity for Self-help.
Fall Term Opened Sept. 27, 1911.
For information address
President R. W. McGranahan
KNOXVILLE, TENN.
Uirginia Union University
RICHMOND, VA.
A College Department, of high standards and
modern curriculum.
A Theological Department, with all subjects
generally required in the best theological seminaries.
An Academy, with manual training, giving a
preparation for life or for college.
The positive moral and religious aim of the
school, its high, standards of entrance and of class
work, its fine new buildings and well-equipped
laboratories and library prepare a faithful student
for a life of wide usefulness.
GEORGE RICE HOVEY, President
MAYERS* INDUSTRIAL SCHOOL
BOARDING AND DAY SCHOOL
For the industrial, literary, moral and religious
training of the Negro youth.
Terms reasonable.
For particulars address
FLORA E. MAYERS, Principal
606 Payne Street,	Ixnoxville, Tenn.
The Cur*e of Race Prejudice
James F. Morton, Jr., A.M., Author and Publisher.
Forceful, rational, comprehensive. An arsenal
of facts and unanswerable arguments. Invaluable
for propaganda. Read the chapter on ‘‘The Bug
bear of Social Equality,” which is a veritable eye-
opener. Thousands already sold. Agents wanted
everywhere.
PRICE 25 CENTS
Address the Author at 244 West 143d Street,
New York. N. Y.
Mention The Crisis.
6
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
“Our Heroes of Destiny
Honorables Frederick Douglass, John M. Langston, Blanche K. Bruce, Paul Laurence
Dunbar and Booker T. Washington
This illustration is protected by copyright. Any infringement
zuill be prosecuted
“OUR HEROES OF DESTINY”
TESTIMONIALS
A most unique and artistic
grouping of these five "immor-
tals” published in a de luxe
edition from portraits, acknowl-
edged	to	be	the most	faithful
in likeness and character extant..
A photogravure is printed
from a hand-tooled intaglio
plate, and consists of fine par-
ticles of ink standing above the
surface of the paper sufficiently
to cast minute shadows. The
depth	of	the	ink and	shadows
cast by it give a richness to a
photogravure impression which
is absolutely unattainable by
relief	or	planographic	printing
as done	by	half-tone, photo-
gelatine, lithographic, or other
similar processes. A perfect
photogravure is the acme of the
engraver’s handicraft.
A genuine photogravure,
printed on the finest grade of
Japan-vellum, 20 x 25 inches in
size, finished in Vandyke
brown, embracing the master
techniques of the engraver’s
and printer’s crafts.
In publishing this valuable
edition of these five notable
men, I have gone to large ex-
pense in an endeavor to present
to my race a rare etching of
the highest technique possible
to create, without a doubt, the
most artistic production of and
for our people now on the
market. Every home, church,
school, lodge, club and business
enterprise possessed with true
race loyalty will adorn their
walls with a copy. Price $1.50.
Send in your order now to
G. M. BATTEY
ARTIST and PUBLISHER
322 Mott Ave., N. Y. City
Dr. Booker T. Washington, Tuskegce Insti-
tute, Ala., says:
1 am really surprised, as well as gratified,
at the fine piece of work you have gotten
out. I had no idea you were going to get
up such an artistic production, that
attractive and so creditable.”
is so
The New York Age, New York City, says:
“Every home and classroom should honor
one of these portraits, and into the mind of
every child it should be grafted with the lines
from the immortal poem of Longfellow: 'Lives
of great men all remind us, we can make
our lives sublime.’ ”
Dr. York Russell, New York City, says:
“Your artistic production of ‘OUR
HEROES OF DESTINY’ is unquestionably
the master composition which has thus far
chronicled the advent in perpetuating faithful
likenesses of our hero-pioneers. The other
nine series with which you propose to follow
this will establish a precedent that will be of
historic value in future years for yet unborn
generations."
Hon. Wm. H. Bliss, New York City, says:
"The photogravure of five eminent Ameri-
cans of your race I am glad to have a copy.
It is a most admirable and interesting com-
position and well calculated to ensure a
favorable and effective acceptance wherever
exhibited.”
Major Charles R Douglass, Washington.
D. C.. says:
“The likenesses and character blending in
the selected gravure portraits of the group
of ‘Honorables’ are better than any I have
yet seen; and to those of our race who
cherish the memories of these men they will
be eagerly sought.”
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS
Volume Four
MAY, 1912
Number One
ALONG
COLOR
POLITICAL.
HP HE political situation among colored
A voters is even more complicated, if
that is possible, than among white voters.
Their attitude turns very largely upon local
issues. The result of this is that particu-
larly in the South the colored men, having
been excluded from participating in the
party councils four years ago by Mr. Roose-
velt’s “steam roller,” are now espousing the
Roosevelt cause as against the Taft “steam
roller.”
<3 The colored voters of Western and Cen-
tral New York have organized a league of
Republican clubs, with John W. Thompson,
of Rochester, as president. Among other
things, they object to the use of the word
“Negro.”
Cj In Pennsylvania an organization of col-
ored men has been formed to support
Roosevelt, with representatives in every
county.
C[ In Washington five bishops of the Zion
Church have sitrned the call supporting
Roosevelt ’ and declaring that Taft’s South-
ern policies have been “the most cruel and
degrading blow ever delivered the Negro by
any President.” The Rev. S. L. Corrothers,
who has hitherto been prominent as a
leader of colored Democrats, has taken
charge of the colored Roosevelt campaign.
In Maryland a poll made by the Balti-
more Times is said to show that the Negroes
are 25 to I for Roosevelt as against Taft.
The colored people blame the recent ad-
vance of race prejudice, the Baltimore seg-
regation scheme and lynching on President
Taft’s administration.
C[ The legislature of Delaware has appar-
ently nullified the United States Constitu-
tion in the town of Georgetown by making
qualified voters “of every white male citizen
of said town who shall have attained the
age of 21 years and is a taxpayer.”
C[ The colored voters of Virginia have many
grievances. In Norfolk County, for instance,
there is a large majority of Negro voters,
and prior to 1S91 colored men filled many
county offices. White Republicans and
Democrats, by a fusion ticket, got rid of
these officers, and since then, despite the
efforts of the whites, it has been impossible
to get any opposition ticket, so that there
is simply one party government, with the
Negro disfranchised.
CJ In West Virginia the Republicans of
Fayette County have since 1902 given the
colored people one representative in the
legislature. Two years ago the “Lily
White” movement got rid of the colored
member, and the result was the Negroes
threw their votes to the Independents and
defeated the Republicans. This year a col-
ored man seems likely to be nominated.
Cl The colored voters of Raleigh, N. C.. have
sent a contesting delegation to Chicago to
support Roosevelt.
C[ Colored men were completely barred out
of the Louisiana Republican convention. In
New Orleans there are 49.131 registered
white voters and 757 registered Negro
voters. There are fully 25,000 colored men
8
THE CRISIS
of voting age in the city. Of the white
voters, 654 registered under the ‘“grand-
father” clause.
C[ The colored men of Tennessee, who for
the last few years have been regularly re-
fused admission to the Republican conven-
tion, are demanding recognition strenuously
in this campaign.
C[ In Arkansas the colored voters have their
hands full in organizing to oppose the new
disfranchising amendment. There are said
to be 111,372 colored voters in the State,
and the general election comes next Septem-
ber. The voters hold the balance of power
on the liquor question and on the bond
amendment, in which the 284,29S white
voters are interested. Leagues are being
organized throughout the State. The im-
portant clause in the amendment reads:
•‘Every* male citizen *	•	• who is
able to read and interpret, or interpret when
read to him. if he is prevented from reading
the same by reason of any physical dis-
ability, any section of the constitution of
the State of Arkansas •	•	• shall be
allowed to vote at any election in the State
of Arkansas; but no person who was. on
January 1, 1S66, or at any time prior
thereto, entitled to vote under the constitu-
tion or statutes of any State in the United
States wherein he then resided *	*	*
and no lineal descendant of such person
•	•	• shall be denied the right to vote
because of his inability to so read and inter-
pret selections of the constitution of this
State. •	•	• The judges of election
shall enforce the provisions of this article
and shall be the judges of the qualifications
of electors.”
<3 Several colored papers are voicing this
political slogan: “Bury Roosevelt at the pri-
maries and beat Taft at the polls!”
m
SOCIAL UPLIFT.
/^\ X April 2 the United States Senate de-
baled and finally passed the bill pro-
viding the sum of $250,000 for a Negro
exposition in 1913 to celebrate fifty years of
freedom. The bill as proposed by the commit-
tee of colored men was somewhat amended,
but the essential features remained. The only
opposition at the Senate discussion came
from Senator Hitchcock, of Nebraska. He
said that expositions degenerated into
amusement parks; that a Negro exposition
would be an example of drawing the color
line, as colored men had every right in
similar exhibitions undertaken by white
men, and that it could not be of value to
• the race, since the colored man could ‘“be
benefited only by adhering to those precepts
in life which bring success and merit suc-
cess.” Senator Smith, of Michigan, replied
that it was “not beyond the realm of hope
that the white man might be benefited
somewhat by an exposition of the colored
man’s achievements, products and genius.”
Senator Root, of New York, said that he
had never been more earnest than in urging
that the Senate should avail itself of this
opportunity “to lift a little the cloud that
hangs over these people.” Senator Xew-
lands, of Nevada, in the course of a long
speech, declared that hardly a Senator was
more radical than he on the race question,
that he believed this should be a country for
the white race only and he believed in race
intolerance, as it kept the races from min-
gling. He had been, in the beginning,
opposed to the project of this exposition,
but he had been so impressed by the state-
ments and bearing of the Negro committee
that he had concluded to vote for the meas-
ure. The two other members of the opposi-
tion who had received the committee. Sena-
tor Taylor, of Tennessee, and Senator
Paynter, of Kentucky, had agreed with him
in this matter.
Senator Lodge, of Massachusetts, said he
had generally opposed appropriations for
expositions, but he thought this one should
be granted. Senator Bradley, of Kentucky,
who introduced the bill, ridiculed the idea
that colored men had equal rights with the
whites in ordinary expositions and said that,
instead of crushing black people, he would
take them by the hand and say: “Come up
here, higher into the atmosphere of free-
dom.” Senator Heybnrn. of Idaho, also made
a speech of some length favoring the bill.
The discussion is printed in full in the
Congressional Record for April 2. At the
end of the Senate proceedings is a report of
the hearing before the committee appointed
to receive the colored delegates and the
speeches of R. R. Wright. Sr., president of
the Emancipation Exposition Committee;
R. R. Wright, Jr., editor of the Christian
Recorder; W. E. B. Du Bois. editor of The
Crisis, and the Rev. T. N. Ross, pastor of
the Metropolitan A. M. E. Church at Wash-
ington, are given in full.
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
9
The editor of the Lyric Year, New York,
has announced a prize competition for poems
not exceeding 300 lines in length. The sum
of $1,000, donated by a lover of poetry, will
be paid in a first prize of $500 and in two
second prizes of $250 each to the authors of
the three poems selected by the judges, Mr.
Edward J. Wheeler and Mr. William Stan-
ley Braithwaite, a contributing editor of The
Crisis, with the editor of the Lyric Tear,
from the 100 poems selected from all manu-
scripts submitted.
Q Two striking cases of Negro heroism
come to our attention this month. A dispatch
from Greenville, Miss., says that a human
dike composed of several hundred colored
men kept the levee from being destroyed for
an hour and a half until the sand bags
arrived.
One of the men killed in the Jed mine,
near Bluefield, W. Va., was Ted Swaley. A
local daily paper says: “This name may not
mean much to some people, but to ihe miners
who recall the explosion at Farm on the first
of last August it will mean a great deal. Ted
Swaley was the hero of that explosion.
Alone he worked his way through the con-
fined workings of that new mine, and, crawl-
ing on his hands and knees, crept to where
six unconscious men lay dying for need of
help. One by one he rolled them on his back
and dragged them to the bucket at the foot
of the shaft, and then went to the surface
with them. Assisted by John Moore, also
colored, who carried a safety lamp, Swaley
went back four times into the depths of the
mine, and it was due to his courage and
bravery that six men were taken out, five of
whom came out alive. Swaley continued at
mining, because it was the only trade he
knew.”
Q The Negro lawyers of Oklahoma have
formed a bar association, with forty
members.
([ Dr. A. B. Terrell, a colored man. has been
made assistant physician to the board of
health of Forth Worth, Tex. He is a
graduate of the University of Chicago and
of the Harvard Medical School, and has
taken an active part in combating the epi-
demic of meningitis in Texas.
C| A company of contractors who are build-
ing automobile engines in New York are
developing a new ignition system which is
the invention of a colored man.
C[ In Perry. Ind., Higby Morgan, a colored
boy, has taken the W. C. T. U. medal for the
best composition.
Cj A man named Kelly, who is doing a turn
called “The Virginia Judge” on the stage, so
angered the colored people of Montreal by
his use of the word “Nigger” that he had to
have police escort home.
<3 In Hutchinson, Kan., a jury composed
entirely of colored men has been trying a
case. Charles Fulton, deputy probate
judge, remarked that he never saw a finer
set of men on a jury than those six colored
men, one of them a doctor, another a min-
ister and a third a law student, and all of
them men who have good education and
character. It attracted a lot. of attention,
being a very unusual occurrence in Kansas
legal circles.
<]The Committee on Urban Conditions Among
Negroes bas been carrying on its protective
work for women, organizing amusement and
neighborhood clubs and securing employ-
ment. They have in mind a plan for a model
dance hall, a detention home for girls and a
summer playground in New York.
C[ The colored people of Cleveland are try-
ing in vain to get the mayor to protect col-
ored residence districts from organized vice.
CJ Nashville colored men are organizing an
athletic association.
CJ A young colored men’s club has been
started in Keokuk, la.; another organized in
Oklahoma City: and in Dayton, O., a home
for working girls and a day nursery are
planned.
EDUCATION.
/COLORED teachers* associations have been
^ meeting in Oklahoma, with an attend-
ance of 350; at Selma, Ala., with 1.000
teachers; at Nashville, Tenn., with 400
teachers, and at New Orleans.
<J Summer schools for colored teachers will
be held at Institute. W. Va.; Durham. N. C.:
Miles Memorial College, Ala., and Straight
College, New Orleans.
Cf Every colored member of the board of
education in the District of Columbia voted
to dismiss Roscoe Conklin g Bruce, the pres-
ent assistant superintendent in charge of the
colored schools. The white members voted
to sustain him. It is suggested that this
vote is indicative of the interests which Mr.
Bruce serves.
10
THE CRISIS
<j The Criterion Club is offering a scholar-
ship to colored school graduates for study at
Fisk University.
The Robert Hungerford School, at Eaton-
ville, Fla., is asking funds for a hospital and
nurses’ training school.
€| The Institute for Colored Youth, at Chey-
ney, Pa., has celebrated its seventy-fifth anni-
versary.
<| Ward Hail, the largest dormitory of
Western University, Quindaro, Kan., has
been destroyed by fire. The loss was $50,000,
but the building will be immediately re-
placed.
Governor Blease of South Carolina sent
the following message to the legislature:
“I disapprove of Item 2, Section 24, be-
cause I see absolutely no use, sense or reason
in taxing the white people of this State to
pay for a heating plant for Negroes to get
up and dress by when the white children
themselves, many of them, have to get up
and make their own fires, and even in some
of our schools.
“And for the same reason I disapprove
Item 3, same section. This is $1,000 for
repairing the heating plant at colored
college.”
In the discussion in the legislature which
followed this veto it is reported that “Mr.
Ashley made a severe arraignment of the
legislature voting money for a heating plant
for a lot of ‘Niggers.’ ” He thought it out-
rageous to provide heating plants for Ne-
groes when thousands of poor white children
have to sit around fireplaces. The legislature,
however, made the appropriation.
The State of Maryland is asked to ap-
propriate $600,000 for a new normal school
for whites. It already has one at Frostburg
which cost $40,000 a year. The colored State
normal school, at Bowie, receives $5,000 a
year. One-fifth of the population of the
State is colored.
In Elizabeth City County, Va., which
contains the town of Hampton, there are
2,202 white children and 2,232 colored chil-
dren. They are provided for as follows:
White. Colored.
Teachers ................... 49	20
Cost of schools.........$62,700	$5,000
Salaries of teachers... 23,343	4,041
School taxes assessed on
taxpayers .............. 24,000	4,000
In addition to this, $40,000 from fines and
corporation taxes go wholly to the white
schools.
A.	M. C. Russell, candidate for State
superintendent of public instruction in
Florida, has been favoring free textbooks for
school children. He replies to an objection
that this will mean free textbooks for col-
ored school children by saying that the white
school population exceeds the colored school
population in thirty-eight counties. He then
adds: “Shall this multitude of white children
be deprived of the many advantages and
benefits and their parents the great economy
and money saving of the free-book system?
We say not. Give every white child a
chance.
“But what will be done for the white chil-
dren in the counties where the Negroes out-
number them? For their protection and for
the protection of all, we are in favor of the
enactment of a law that will invest the
county school boards with sufficient discre-
tion to enable them to operate the free-book
system so as to adapt it to local conditions.”
<J Mr. George Foster Peabody has resigned
from the board of trustees of Tuskegee
Institute.
m.
ECONOMICS.
rT7HE colored Masons of Alabama report
**■ that $75,949 have been received during
the year. The Odd Fellows of Louisiana
have paid $3,000 for a new building in New
Orleans. The United Brothers of Friend-
ship have erected a $20,000 building at
Louisville, Ky. This order collected in Texas
during the year $67,459. The Masons of
Mississippi are reported to have spent
$1,300,000 for endowment benefits, and have
a balance of $19,000 on hand. The Odd Fel-
lows of that State spent $507,000 in two
years, and have a balance of $7S,000 on
hand.
C] The treatment of Negro laborers by the
Fertilizer Trust operating in North Carolina
is a continual scandal. The Negroes have
struck repeatedly in the last ten years, but
have been intimidated by the sheriffs and
police. One hundred and fifty struck last
month at Wilmington, N. C., and were
promptly arrested.
C[ Colored people pay taxes on nearly
$1,000,000 worth of property in Savannah,
Ga.
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
11
Q A dispatch from Washington says that
the Department of Agriculture is getting
visible returns from its work among the col-
ored farmers. There are 681 white demon-
strators and 40 Negro demonstrators work-
ing for the department.
tj Within the last two months there have
been established by the colored people in
Nashville, Tenn., a millinery store, a drug
store and a theatre. There were already in
operation two banks, two large publishing
plants, four printing concerns, numerous
drug stores, grocery stores, three undertak-
ing establishments, shoe-shining and repair-
ing shops, confection stores, ice cream and
soda fountains. There is also a church sup-
ply company in the city, manufacturing
everything from a hymn book to church
altars of the finest make.
<3 New Negro towns are springing up con-
tinually in the South. University City has
been planned in Oklahoma, so called because
30 per cent, of all the proceeds from the
sale of lots is to go toward the building of
a university. Fidelity, a new laboring col-
ODy, is to be opened near Houston, Tex., by
white capitalists.
Q Georgia colored people are now paying
taxes on an assessed value of $34,022,379
worth of property. This is an increase of
nearly $2,000,000 over last year, and repre-
sents a real value of over $60,000,000.
B
COURTS.
OEVERAL cases of discrimination have
^ come before the courts recently.
In Norfolk, Va., a colored man is testing
the segregation ordinance. In New York a
colored servant in Flushing was accused of
stealing and held as a prisoner in the house;
afterward the mistress found her rings in a
pill box, and the servant sued for damages.
She lost her case. In Brooklyn Andrew
Hubert recovered $150 as penalty against a
keeper of an eating house who refused to
serve him. In Boston W. W. Bryant had a
bartender of Rich’s Grill fined'$25 for refus-
ing to serve him.
B
CRIME.
rTTHE record of lynching for the month is
*** as follows:
At Fort Smith, Ark., a colored man was
lynched for shooting a deputy constable;
the police made no attempt to interfere, and
a large part of the force has been dismissed
on this account. At Marianna, Ark., three
Negroes were killed by a young farmer on
account of labor troubles and “insulting
remarks.” At Blacksburg, S. C., two
Negroes were hanged for forcing a white
man to drink whiskey and, as was alleged,
for robbing him. At Olar, S. C., three
Negroes were taken from officers and shot to
death; they were accused of burning the
mayor’s home. It seems that the colored
men had been working for the mayor and
had quarreled with him. At Cochran, Ga.,
a convict was lynched for killing a guard.
At Shreveport, La., a colored man was killed
for “insulting a white man.” At Starks-
ville, Miss., a colored man was lynched
because a woman was frightened at seeing
him approach. At Shelbyville, Tenn., one of
the victims of the mob, which shot several
prisoners, is dead; the Chattanooga News
publishes details of the way in which the
lynching was planned. A colored man in
Hoisinger, Kan., who had wounded two
white men, was lynched, and another stealing
a ride on a train in Brook Haven, Miss.,
killed the officer who was trying to arrest
him, and was himself shot to death. At
Salisbury, Md., to prevent a lynching, a col-
ored man accused of attacking a woman was
sent to the penitentiary for ten years after
a five-minute trial. In Birmingham, Ala., a
man killed a Negro who was prowling about
the window.
C[ There are the usual number of murders
of Negroes by white men and officers: At
Columbus, Ga., two men are held for
severely whipping a Negro who had testified
against them. At Middleburg, Md., a Negro
was dragged at the rope end for becoming
“impudent” when asked a question. At Ben-
ton, Ark., five men charged with killing a
member of a Negro minstrel troupe were
acquitted. Negroes have been killed by offi-
cers of the law at Hazelhurst, Ga., and
Franklin, Tenn. White men were killed by
Negroes at Atchison, Kan., and Roanoke, Ya.
<3 Women and children are now aiding in
lynching and murdering Negroes. A woman
led a lynching mob in Jacksonville, Fla., but
was unsuccessful. The man was accused of
murdering a family. In Goldsboro, N. C., a
14-year-old boy killed an old Negro who
owed him 5 cents. In Savannah, Ga., Sam-
uel Simms, white and 30 years of age, killed
a colored boy about the same age for kicking
his dog.
CJ It is now charged that the assailant of the
12
THE
CRISIS
prominent New York society woman, Mrs.
Beach, at Aiken, S. C., was her husband,
and not the ‘‘strange colored man,” as
accused.
C[ President Taft, in a speech to the alumni
of Howard University, made his first decla-
ration against lynching. He said: “It is not
any less a murder because 400 men take part
in it than because one man does. Ordinarily
it is accompanied by a good deal more cow-
ardice because 400 are in it instead of one.
The only way by which it can be suppressed
is that some time we shall have men as sher-
iffs and as governors and as prosecutors and
as jurors who will see to it that the men who
are engaged in pulling the rope under those
conditions shall themselves swing by the
rope.”
m
MEETINGS.
A N anti-lynching meeting has been held
in Boston. Darius Cobb, the artist,
Albert E. Pillsbury, formerly attorney-
general, and Bishop Walters took part.
C] A general conference of social-service
workers among the colored people of St.
Louis was attended by 200 white and col-
ored workers.
CJ Mr. George E. Haynes spoke before the
Ethical Culture Association of New York,
on “Problems of City Life Among Colored
People.”
CJ A conference on the application of indus-
trial education to problems in Africa has
been held at Tuskegee Institute.
THE GHETTO.
rTTIIE members of the Ohio Constitutional
Convention have achieved a character-
istic act of American courtesy. By a vote in
which each member’s name was carefully
recorded, Mr. W. H. Lewis, Assistant Attor-
ney-General of the United States, was asked
to address the convention. On the next day,
by an unrecorded viva voce vote, the invita-
tion was rescinded.
C] A wealthy Japanese druggist has been
compelled by popular clamor to give up a
piece of property which he had bought in a
popular Sacramento, Cal., residence district.
*3 The Lincoln University Glee Club were
booked to sing at the white Y. M. C. A.,
Westchester, Pa. When they arrived and
found that the town had been placarded,
“You must hear dem darkies sing,” they
went home without giving the concert.
Cfl The following touching dispatch comes
from Chattanooga: “A veritable sensation
was unearthed here this afternoon when it
was discovered that the bodies of white per-
sons who died in the Hamilton County Poor-
house were being buried by G. W. Franklin,
a Negro undertaker. The body of a white
woman who died at the institution was found
in the Negro’s establishment in a rough pine
coffin by charity workers this afternoon.
Public sentiment is aroused.”
CJ The various churches of Des Moines elect
directors for the local Y. M. C. A. A col-
ored attorney, S. J. Brown, represented a
local colored church, and finding that he was
not allowed to vote, left the meeting.
Cfl A mass-meeting to protest against unjust
discrimination in the Nurses’ Training School
at Los Angeles, Cal., has been held.
CJ Mr. Carnegie is considering a donation of
colored libraries in Savannah and Muskogee.
It is difficult, however, to get local city coun-
cils to promise appropriations.
CJ In New Orleans a white children’s play-
ground has been erected in the midst of the
colored district. The superintendent is now
threatening to arrest Negroes who loaf in
the vicinity.
CJ The case of the right of colored people to
use the name Knights of Pythias for a secret
organization has been argued before the
Supreme Court of the United States.
Cfl A remarkable case came up at Oxford
University lately. Malcolm Orr-Ewing and
Mohammed El Abd were fined for fighting.
El Abd testified that he went to a perform-
ance at the East Oxford Theatre. Orr-Ewing
sat behind him, he said, and began calling
him abusive names because he was a for-
eigner and was of a black complexion. The
witness said he heard the words “You Nig-
ger with the big cigar.”
MUSIC AND ART.
A NEW concerto for violin has been com-
posed by Mr. Samuel Coleridge-Tay-
lor and will be heard for the first time at
the Norfolk Festival, Norfolk, Conn., in
June.
Mrs. Maud Powell, the distinguished
American violinist who is to play the work,
ALONG THE
COLOR LINE
13
says: “Its history has an interest of its
own. Mr. Coleridge-Taylor agreed to fur-
nish me a new concerto for last season's
Norfolk Festival, and he did so. He sent
me a work, dedicated to me, based on Ameri-
can Negro melodies. He is an extremely
modest man, however, and perhaps my let-
ter of thanks was not as warm as it might
have been. At any rate, in the course of a
month or two he wrote and asked me to
return the concerto, that he had reconsidered
it, and decided never to publish the work or
to have it performed. He also said that he
was writing a new work at white heat,
which he would send me as soon as it was
completed. I wrote him at the time to pre-
serve the slow movement. And in the new
concerto he has also incorporated the first
theme of the other work. It is melodious
music—like a bouquet of flowers. That is
the comparison that comes to my mind.”
At the festival two years ago, in June,
Mr. Coleridge-Taylor conducted “Hiawatha’s
Wedding Feast” and “The Death of Minne-
haha,” which were presented by the Litch-
field County Choral Union, in addition to
conducting his latest orchestral work, “Bam-
boula Rhapsodic Dance,” which was com-
posed for the occasion and dedicated to
Mr. and Mrs. Stoeckel.
At the request of the influential citizens
of Wellington, New Zealand, Mr. Hamilton
Hodges, the American baritone who has
settled in Auckland, has opened a large and
finely equipped studio in Wellington for
pupils in vocal training.
(J On March 22, at the Howard Theatre,
Washington, D. C., a saengerfest was given
by the chorus of the Washington Conserva-
tory of Music, conducted by Mr. Harry7 A.
Williams, director of the vocal department.
CjThe Lucretia Mott Mothers’ Club, com-
posed of public-spirited colored women of
West Medford, Mass., inaugurated this .year
a series of open meetings at which are given
addresses on instructive topics supplemented
by musical programs.
At the meeting in March Mrs. May Hal-
lowell-Loud spoke on “Art in the Home,”
prefacing her address by interesting personal
reminiscences and anecdotes of her great-
grandmother, Lucretia Mott, the abolition-
ist, after whom the club is named.
Mme. Anita Patti-Brow7n, coloratura
soprano of Chicago, 111., after a successful
tour in Cuba, is being heard in concert
throughout the State of Texas.
AFRICA.
A GREAT native college is to be estab-
lished in South Africa, says the
Sierra Leone Weekly News. £22,500 has
already been subscribed in Europe and
£17,500 by native Africans, leaving only
£10,000 to be subscribed to complete the
£50,000 required.
CJ Dr. Abdurahman, president of the Afri-
can political organization at Capo Town,
S.	A., at the annual congress in Johannes-
burg condemned the oppressive character of
recent and prospective legislation affecting
the political rights of the colored population
and the failure to meet their legitimate
demands in regard to education.
CJ Mr. G. Debayo Agbebi, of Lagos, West
Africa, recently graduated with high honors
from the University of Birmingham, Eng-
land, standing third in a class of fifty-seven.
He has been elected a fellow of the Geolog-
ical Society and a member of the Royal
Sanitary7 Institute. Young Agbebi is a civil
engineer and a nephew of Dr. Mojola
Agbebi.
ASIA.
"V/fR. KAWAKAMI, author of a recently
published work on American-Japan-
ese relations, counsels the abandonment of
independent Japanese schools in Hawaii and
on the Pacific Coast, for by fostering the
Oriental language and culture they tend to
retard the Americanization of the children
and to arouse the suspicions of the Asio-
phobes.
The Chinese Assembly has granted woman
suffrage under the same educational and
property qualifications as for men. Yik Yuk
Ying, who has been called the Mrs. Pank-
hurst of China, has been elected to the
assembly7.
CJ The Argentine government has prohibited
the landing of a shipload of East Indian
immigrants.
CJ A Democratic bill for Philippine inde-
pendence is now before the House of Repre-
sentatives. The bill proposes to grant pro-
bationary independence to the islands for a
period of eight years, beginning July7 4,1913.
During this period the president of the
islands would be appointed by the President
of the United States and the United States
would defend the islands against foreign
invasion, and. upon request of the local gov-
ernment, against popular violence. In 1921
the Filipinos are to have full autonomy*.

MEN or THE
MONTH
,f?L4TlMFR>|
AJBDUL BAHA, THE PERSIAN TEACHER OF BROTHERHOOD
MEN OF THE MONTH
15
A PERSIAN TEACHER.
/^\N April 12 Abdul Baha, the head of
^ the religious movement known as
Babaism, arrived in America to visit his
rapidly increasing band of followers. His
coming is of particular interest to those
of us who believe in the brotherhood of
man, for that is the doctrine the Bahais em-
phasize above all other things. Because they
have taught it, their first leader was put to
death, their second died in prison, while
Abdul Baha, their third head, has spent all
his life, until a few years ago, in the Turk-
ish prison at Acca, in Syria, the “new holy
city” of the Bahais.
It is only seventy years since the move-
ment of.which he is the leader originated in
Persia; to-day it. numbers 10,000 disciples
and is growing at an amazing rate. It is
not, properly speaking, a “new religion.” It
does not ask a Christian to cease professing
Christianity or a Mohammedan to give up
his Mohammedanism. It does, however,
demand that each person shall follow the
spiritual truths, of his religion, and it pays
little attention to dogma.
The movement presents in many respects
a striking parallel with the early growth of
Christianity. Like Christianity, it began as a
protest against the corruption of established,
untolerant, unspiritual religion, and also like
Christianity it drew on itself the most inhu-
man persecutions. The number of martyrs
is estimated at about 50,000. They have
been burned alive, beheaded, torn in pieces,
hanged and tortured in all the ways official
cruelty could devise. There has not been an
instance of recantation. The records of the
Bahais speak of the victims as “athirst for
the draught of martyrdom,” and it is indeed
true that they died with songs on their lips.
There were persecutions and martyrdoms
so recently as nine years ago, but the great
time of trial was in the years 1S48 to IS52,
when the movement was beginning and the
Persian government saw, in the growth of
this enthusiasm for brotherhood, a menace
to its arbitrary power. Perhaps twenty
thousand men, women, and even children,
died during these years of persecution.
It was in 1844 that a young Persian
named Mohammed Ali began to preach a
doctrine of simplicity and spirituality. He
called himself “the Bab,” which in Persian
means “the gate.” It was not uncommon
for teachers to adopt this title, signifying
that wisdom did not originate with them,
but came from heaven, using them as the
gate by which to approach humanity. The
Bab was only 25 years old, but he soon won
a large number of followers, so soon that the
great persecution began when he had
preached but four years.
The accusations brought against the fol-
lowers of the Bab were very similar to those
brought against the early Christians. They
were charged with being “bad citizens,” be-
cause they taught love to all men of all
races, and of immorality, because they prac-
tised a kind of community of goods, like
that of the early Christians.
The Bab found martyrdom in the course
of time, being hanged from the wall of a
prison and shot; so, in the words of the
chronicle, did “that holy spirit escape from
its gentle frame and ascend to the supreme
horizon.” But, like John the Baptist, he
had continually spoken of someone to fol-
low him and perfect his work, and soon
after his death a man arose who was gen-
erally received as the head of the move-
ment. This was Baha Ulla, the father of
Abdul Baha.
Baha Ulla was a man of great wealth and
high rank. He did not long keep either, for
the Persian government, afraid perhaps to
kill him, confiscated his goods and exiled
him. “Thank God, I am now free,” cried
Baha Lila when he heard that all his wealth
was lost. With the greatest suffering he and
his family, with a band of followers, made
their way from Persia toward the coast. No
sooner had they arrived than the Turkish
government arrested them and threw them
in prison at Acca. Baha Ulla never left the
prison again, and Abdul Baha grew up and
spent all his life there, until the “Young
Turks” seized the government a few years
ago and gave him his freedom.
At first the family suffered greatly, but
by degrees, as the jailers saw that they were
kindly and gentle people, they were given
some privileges, so that friends could see
them and the work could be carried on from
the prison. Baha Ulla did a great deal to
simplify the somewhat complicated and Ori-
ental teachings of the movement. His son
was accepted by all as his successor,
although there is no theory of a priestly
family which is to rule the Bahais.
At Abdul Baha’s house in Acca all men
are welcomed. Persian, African, French-
man, American—they all meet as brothers
before the master. He is the most generous
16
THE
CRISIS
THE LATE DAVID H. TERRIS
and hospitable of men, and all are welcome
to bis table. He follows literally the Scrip-
tural injunction to give his goods to the
poor; the coat he wears is usually all he has.
Naturally, he is interested in the question
of race prejudice in this country, where he
has so many disciples. Recently he sent this
message to one of them, Mrs. M. L. Botay,
who has sent it to The Crisis:
“Give Mrs. Botay my greetings and love
and tell her she must greatly endeavor
through the assistance of heaven to cast
light among the colored people, so that they
may become as our brothers, no blacks, no
whites, both as one. By this means you
shall free America from all prejudice. Be-
cause in the Kingdom of God all are the
same, whether black or white. The greater
the faith of either, the more acceptable is
he in the Kingdom. A faithful colored be-
liever is a child of the Kingdom, while a
white unbeliever is deprived. God looks
upon hearts, not upon colors. He looks
upon qualities, not upon bodies.”
ffl
THE LATE DAVID H. FERRIS.
ON March 9 Mr. David II. Ferris, one
of the well-known colored men of New
Haven and a veteran of the Civil War, died
of heart failure. For many years he had
interested himself in the welfare of his peo-
ple, and the tributes paid to his memory
came from all classes of society. He was
born in New York City sixty-seven years
ago, and was the son of a Methodist
preacher. His grandfather had escaped
from slavery. David Ferris was only a boy
when the war broke out, but he enlisted as
soon as he could be received, and went
South with a New York regiment. He was
a man of great strength, as well as courage,
and distinguished himself on several occa-
sions. He served for some time in the far
South, and after the close of the war did
duty in suppressing the guerrillas. His son,
William H. Ferris, is a graduate of Yale and
Harvard Universities.
M
THE MILITARY ATTACHES TO LIBERIA.
r 1 ' HE military attaches of the United
*** States legation who are to reorganize
the Liberian constabulary have just sailed.
They are headed by Captain Young, of the
United States army, and with him go Dr.
Wilson Ballard, who will rank in the Libe-
rian army as major, and Mr. Richard H.
Newton and Mr. Arthur A. Browne, who
will rank as captains.
CAPT. A. A. BROWNE CAPT. R. H. NEWTON
MAJOR W. BALLARD
W. J. Northern, ex-
AN EX-GOVERNOR OP n	c r>
Governor of Georgia,
GEORGIA SPEAKS. . u
has been saying a great
many good words for the Negro lately. We
have just received in pamphlet form the ad-
dress he delivered before the Evangelical
Ministers' Association of Atlanta, in which
he did not hesitate to say that the churches
of the South had “greatly neglected" their
duty toward the Negro.
‘‘Bishop Haygood, a Christian minister
whom I honored and greatly loved, was far
in advance of his generation when he wrote
‘Our Brother in Black,'" said Governor
Northern. “Is the spirit and the matter of
the book acceptable to the people at this
day? Are we really related to the Negro as
our brother in black, or our brother at all?
It is up to the leaders of our spiritual life
to bring us into a clear understanding of the
brotherhood of man and teach us how to do
unto others as we would they should do
unto us, remembering, if we forgive not men
their trespasses against us, neither will God
forgive our sins. Here lies the whole trou-
ble in the solution of the problem of the
races, and I do not hesitate to say there is
no class of our citizens better equipped to
remove the difficulty than the Christian min-
isters I now have the honor to address. The
problem is yours, and to you the spirit of
the South must appeal."
Mr. Northern spoke of the economic serv-
ice the Negro had rendered the South for
generation after generation and of the effort
to-day to drive him out of various lines of
service. “Negroes in livery and Negroes
without livery have been coachmen for
white people at the South for hundreds of
years," he said. “Since we have come into
the higher elegance of automobiles, a neigh-
boring city has declared that no car will
have the advantage of garage keeping if
driven by a Negro. In our own city, I un-
derstand, there is a strong combination
determined to eliminate the Negro from
this place of service. Let me say openly, in
this high Christian presence, if we live in
peace and prosperity, this forty-seven per
cent, of our community life must _be guar-
anteed protection in the lawful pursuit of
such industries as will secure for them
needed maintenance and an honest support,
and comers and goers should not be allowed,
in open and brutal violation of law, to force
them to robbery and pillage for a living.
“I am in the profoundest sympathy with
the efforts of organized labor to secure its
legitimate rights in the government and in
the community. No man in Georgia will go
further than I to help to this end, but I am
absolutely opposed to any open effort on the
part of any body of people to destroy the
rights of any other citizen or body of citi-
zens simply to secure their own good. It
seems we are no longer a government by the
people, seeking the greatest good for the
greatest number, but we are a government
hv classes, seeking the greatest good for our
class, while we are absolutely regardless of
whatever evil may befall all other classes.
Capital is arrayed against organized labor
and organized labor is arrayed against capi-
tal; organized labor is arrayed against un-
organized labor, and both these against
Negro labor, and so with all classes of our
community life. Walton county farmers
have now’ been notified that they will be
allowed to keep their Negro labor for the
gathering of their present crops, but that
they must hire no Negroes for another year.
“Vagrancy is now’ one of the most danger-
ous tendencies of the times. Vagrancy is
the breeder of crime. What will we do when
one million Negroes in Georgia are driven
into enforced idleness and loitering and
18
THE CRISIS
denied the opportunity to make an honest
living in legitimate service? Such condition
will multiply criminals beyond our power to
punish or our inclination to reclaim.”
Turning to the subject of lawlessness and
the severity with which Negroes are treated
in the courts, Mr. Northern said:
“During my recent canvass of the State
in the interest of law and order, a prominent
State official told me this story. He said, in
a county not far from the place at which we
stood, a Negro convict was unexpectedly
discharged from a chain-gang sentence, and
he promptly returned to his home in search
of his wife and his children. The woman
had been employed by a nearby white man
as cook, and subsequently used by him as his
mistress. When the Negro in his search ap-
peared upon the scene, the white man
promptly ordered him off the premises with
the additional injunction to stay away.
Later the Negro appeared in the cabin of
his wife, and was observed by the white
man. A difficulty ensued and the white man
was wounded. The Negro escaped, but he
was pursued by a mob and brutally lynched.
Nobody ever challenged the gross immo-
rality of the white man, nor did any officer
of the law ever attempt to bring to punish-
ment the murderous mob that slew the
Negro for daring to protect his home against
the assault of a degenerate white man.
“What body of men has ever made any
attack upon the deadly pestilence shadowing
the State and the Nation, because of the
lecherous living and life habits of white men
and Negro women? Suppose you count the
mulattoes as they pass you upon the streets,
or serve you in your homes, and you will
then have some conception of the enormity
of this awful and damning sin.
“When did the ministers of our city
ever denounce this brazen iniquity?
“Our law has two distinct and successful
methods for making criminals of Negroes—
both negative in character, but forcefully
positive in action.
“The first is the denial of an industrial
institution or workhouse for young Negroes.
I he idle among them, with the incorrigible
and the vicious, should be taken by the
State and confined at some helpful service
and kept there until they become fit to be
put on the community again. The city of
Atlanta is rearing a generation of young
Negroes, both girls and boys, that will give
great trouble at no distant day in criminal
and vicious living.
“The second method is the entire absence
of all effort at moral reform in our whole
penal system. Our penitentiary is nothing
more or less than au institution supported
by the State for the graduation of its in-
mates as criminals. All the environment and
management are hardening and damning
rather than bringing to repentence and the
desire for a better life. It is not a matter of
surprise that criminals in Georgia return
many times to the penitentiary when they
have been confined there once.
“If the newspapers are to be credited,
every Negro lynched or burned in Georgia
makes from one hundred to one thousand
murderous white men. The crowds doing
these savage deeds have been estimated from
one hundred to two thousand and five hun-
dred strong. If during the last half cen-
tury we have averaged twenty lynchings
annually, and the average crowd doing the
savage work should be estimated at two
hundred, we have the appalling condition of
one himdred thousand murderous white men
loose in Georgia, not one of whom has ever
been brought to trial and punished for the
crime of murder. This statement may fur-
nish one further means for determining the
criminal population of our criminal State,
as between Negroes and white men as to
numbers.”
M
ur. abbott Dr. Lvman Abbott’s
and the pronouncement that the
good Samaritan, parable of the Good
Samaritan was designed to teach social
exclusiveness was noticed in last month’s
Crisis. Dr. Horace Bumstead, former presi-
dent of Atlanta University, writes to the
New York Evening Post about it and says:
“Dr. Lyman Abbott, in replying to an
unknown friend in charge of a school, in a
recent number of the Outlook, advises the
exclusion of a Negro pupil, whose presence,
on account of color, is objectionable to the
other pupils. The peace and harmony of
the school must not be imperilled by a quix-
otic attempt to vanquish race prejudice.
“In connection with Dr. Abbott’s advice,
it may be instructive to recall how Prudence
Crandall met the same problem thirty years
before the Civil War. in Canterbury, Conn.
This young Quaker woman was conducting
a girls’ boarding and day school when
OPINION
19
application was made for the admission of
a colored girl, the daughter of a worthy
and prosperous farmer of the neighborhood,
and herself a member of the church in the
town. No objection seems to have been
raised on the part of the other girls, some
of whom had already been her classmates
in the district school, but the parents
objected to having their daughters ‘taught
with a Nigger’ in a private school, and
threatened their withdrawal. Miss Crandall,
after careful deliberation, decided to give up
her white pupils, admit the colored appli-
cant, and open the school to other colored
girls. The town was stirred to indignation.
Teacher and pupils were insulted on the
streets. The school was boycotted at the
village stores. Its well was polluted with
filth. An attempt was made to bum the
house. Finally, the legislature of the State
passed its infamous ‘Black law,’ under
which Miss Crandall was prosecuted and
imprisoned and the school broken up.
“Quixotic? Yes, according to Dr. Abbott’s
teaching, and, judged by its immediate
results, it may have been. But we must
remember that Jesus has not escaped a simi-
lar charge, and that there are some reasons
for still believing that—
‘They win who with Him lose.’
Prudence Crandall won. The example of
her moral heroism was a potent factor in
making Windham County, where the inci-
dent occurred, the banner county in Con-
necticut in the subsequent struggle for
human rights.
“Time has done much toward softening
and removing racial and religious prejudice,
but only because, in every age, some people
have been willing to speak and act about
it, instead of postponing its cure to an indefi-
nite future. Jesus and Peter and Paul began
2,000 years ago. Yes, and the Good Samari-
tan, too, in spite of Dr. Abbott’s remarkable
suggestion that this traveler in Judea took
the half-dead victim of the robbers to an inn
—not, as we should have supposed, because
the man might have been wholly dead if he
had jolted him ‘on his own beast’ all the way
to his Samaritan home, but—because he
feared to disturb the peace of his family by
exciting their racial and religious prejudice!
It is difficult to believe that Dr. Abbott
could have intended such a suggestion to be
taken seriously.”
about	The Charleston Mes-
“unlawful senger, a colored paper
tolls.” of Charleston, S. C.,
quotes a remark from the News and Courier
in regard to the effect that the Negro,
“undisciplined and with a code of morals
that is no code at all, levies his unlawful toll
here, there and everywhere.”
To this the Messenger returns: “If this
charge is true, it is terrible no less for the
white man than for the Negro himself. The
question comes then what is to be done?
And who is to do it? What is the
strong race which the News and Courier
represents doing to better the condi-
tion of the hopeless Negro? Here are some
of the things: In Charleston, a city of thou-
sands of Negro children, the most rudiment-
ary school facilities are supplied for a few
hundreds. A few weeks ago a colored cler-
gyman of the city, realizing it to be his duty
to do all in his power to relieve the condi-
tions complained of, asked the city council
to give him a beggarly sum of money and
piece of land to start a school for Negro
children of the city. Of course, he was
promptly turned down. During the session
of the last legislature a measure to appro-
priate a pitiful $1,000 to install a heating
plant in the one so-called ‘college’ that the
great State of South Carolina inadequately
maintains for the instruction of all her
Negro youths only passed by the skin of its
teeth. So it goes ad infinitum, but what is
the use of multiplying instances?”
M
The New York Evening
lynchin'G. Post thus sums up the
month’s lvnchings:
“ ‘Dismissed in Court—Lynched’—thus a
headline in to-day’s news. Judge Lynch
wanted to shed blood at Shreveport. La., and
so another innocent Negro was killed. But
that is not the only place where the innocent
suffer. The Memphis Commercial-Appeal
tells of a case at Starkville, Miss., where an
hysterical woman was ‘frightened without
cause’ by seeing a Negro, who promptly
went to a white neighbor and protested his
innocence. That neighbor, like the coroner’s
jury, was satisfied of it, but ‘eight prominent
citizens’ shot him to death while he was ‘cut-
ting timber in the woods.’ Strange as it
may seem, they are to be arrested for mur-
der. At Nashville Governor Hooper has
just pardoned a Negro who has served a
year on a charge of rape, because the at tor-
20
THE CRISIS
ney-general of Tennessee has ‘learned that
the testimony upou which the conviction was
had was wholly unreliable.’ Ho is now fully
convinced that the prisoner is iimoceut.
Blacksburg, S. C., is again reported ‘quiet
after lynching two Negroes’ who forced a
white man ‘to drink whiskey’—not usually
an indictable offence. In Marianna, Ark., a
planter killed three Negroes in a dispute as
to when they should return to the plantation
from town. Unfortunately, he also shot a
white man in the leg, and so he is under
arrest. But why should he be prosecuted for
wanting to be Judge Lynch all by himself?”
Some comment has fol-
COLORED folk i0Wed the victory of the
IN theatres. New York Vigilance
Committee of the National Association for
the Advancement of Colored People in
securing the conviction of a theatre-ticket
agent who refused to admit a colored man
and woman to the orchestra seats. “The
decision of three Special Sessions judges
yesterday that a Negro buying seats in the
orchestra of a theatre is entitled to use them
is significant,” says the New York Evening
Post, “chiefly because it is in line with an
effort—strongly urged by Miss Jane Addams
among others—to secure the enforcement of
the civil-rights laws on the statute books of
this and other States. These laws, expressly
passed to insure their rights to the freed
slaves, are being deliberately violated, with
the usual result that they are brought into
contempt. The district-attorney’s office has
apparently not for years appreciated that
discrimination of this kind violates the law.”
The New York Times takes a different
view. “Probably the theatrical managers,”
it remarks, “would admit Negroes to orches-
tra seats as readily as white persons, if it
were found profitable. It is a matter of
business with them, not of prejudice. But,
if compelled to admit Negroes, they would
find that the prejudice of white patrons
deprived them of their profits. This would
amount to confiscation and an invasion of
the rights of private business.”
The Macon Telegraph, before the case was
finished, hoped it would be admitted that it
would “ruin business” to admit colored per-
sons to orchestra seats, and that they would
be frankly “not allowed” downstairs in New
York playhouses. “It is time to end dis-
honest subterfuge,” it says.
The Ladies> Home
A black madonna. Journal publishes a
letter of Mark Twain
in which ho praises a picture of Joan of
Arc and speaks of artists who spoil the
Virgin Mary by making her fair “and white,
which she wasn’t.”
His daughter Jean saw the letter before
it was posted and withheld it, telling her
father that ho must change something in it.
Mark Twain inquired as to the change:
“You have said the Virgin Mary was not
white.
“Very well!
“But it’s shocking. The idea of saying the
mother of the Saviour was colored. It is
sacrilegious.”
“Nonsense” laughed the father. “In
Mary’s day only one-tenth of the world was
white, and to-day over one thousand of the
fifteen hundred million are colored.”
But the daughter insisted that her father
must change the “revolting” statement.
Mark Twain answered:
“My dear, I won’t. To my mind one color
is just as respectable as another; there, is
nothing important, nothing essential about
a complexion. I mean, to me. But with
God it is different. He doesn’t think much
of white people. He prefers the colored.”
The passing by the Sen-
THE EMANCIPATION ftte of the m pr0vid-
exposition. ing for a Negro expo-
sition in 1913 leads the Atlanta Constitution
to point out that it has always favored the
project. “Our one reservation was that the
exposition should stress the practical, and
not the theoretical, side of Negro achieve-
ment and the Negro’s need. Of those things
which revolve around hypothesis, and which
help a scant 10 per cent, of the race, there
is a surplusage. There is little enough said
and done touching the factors that may fit
the great unequipped 90 per cent, for the
tasks that now go begging.” The Chicago
Record-Herald thinks that there should be
no opposition to a celebration of the down-
fall of slavery—“from the ruins of that
wrong institution the new South has
emerged, thriving, contented and purified,”
while the Philadelphia Inquirier remarks,
patronizingly: “The Negro has been im-
proving right along, is gaining everywhere
insofar as he uses industry and such intelli-
gence as he possesses.”
npHE question of the election of Mr. W.
A H. Lewis to the American Bar Associ-
ation is still under fire. Learning that Mr.
John Harsen Rhoades, a prominent New
York banker, had protested to the American
Bar Association against the action of the
executive committee, we secured Mr.
Rhoades’ permission to print his letter. It
runs as follows:
“March 15, 1912.
“Stephen S. Gregory, Esq.,
“President American Bar Association.
“Dear Sir:
“If I am correct in assuming that the
American Bar Association aspires to deserve
public esteem, and since its act may estab-
lish a doubtful precedent, on the basis of
broad citizenship I feel it my privilege to
protest against such an extreme example of
race prejudice as that involved in the rescis-
sion of the membership of Mr. William H.
Lewis. Such discrimination is obnoxious to
lovers of fair play, alien to the American
spirit, and from the humanitarian stand-
point indefensible.
“I can appreciate why objection might be
raised to Mr. Lewis’ membership in a purely
social organization, but it passes understand-
ing why he should be excluded from such a
body as the American Bar Association, a
professional league of semi-public character
and national scope.
“Were Mr. Lewis a banker, I would wel-
come him to membership in the American
Bankers’ Association, because I believe the
real purpose of such an organization to be,
not social, but utilitarian. Too much diver-
sion and too little attention to achievement
is the weakness in all such organizations
to-day.
“It would be humiliating indeed were we
forced to concede that the American Bar
Association is so narrow as to ostracize an
W. E. MORRIS, OF MINNEAPOLIS
Member of the American Bar Association
individual because he happens to be one-
eighth black. I do not ask for social com-
radeship, but for interprofessional courtesy
in recognition of attainment.
“The American Bar Association would
lose nothing by maintaining in membership
one who has succeeded in his profession
against tremendous odds, and by his exclu-
sion misses a golden opportunity to exhibit
a keen sense of justice.
“Yours very truly,
“John Harsen Rhoades.”
22
THE
CRISIS
The April Crisis contained an article on
Richard Lonsdale Brown, the young colored
artist of whom the association is justly
proud. The article was written for The
Crisis and the New York Times, and the
Times printed it at a most opportune
moment, just before the artist’s exhibition of
his paintings. During the week of the
exhibit, March 18 to 23, the gallery of Oving-
ton Brothers Company was crowded every
day, so crowded on some of the afternoons
as to make a view of the pictures difficult.
It is estimated that 2,500 persons saw them.
Twenty-six pictures were for sale and six-
teen were sold, besides a number of little sky
sketches which many persons bought as sou-
venirs. Among the purchasers were Mr.
Jacob H. Schifif, Mr. Warburg, Mr. Coster
and Miss Mary Garden. The young artist
received $1,000 for his work. He plans to
remain in New York for a year, but will put
aside a part of this fund for study abroad.
Mi. C. Ames Brooks, acting for the Legal
Aid Committee of the National Association,
sends us the following report from Balti-
more :
“April 1, 1912.
“Gentlemen:
“After numerous conferences relative to
the Baltimore segregation ordinance had
to-day with Mr. W. Ashbie Hawkins, repre-
sentative of the prosecuting attorney, and
Judge Elliott, of the Criminal Court, I have
to present the following report:
“Mr. Hawkins has now on hand two cases
involving the constitutionality of the above
ordinance, and so far as he knows they are
the only cases now pending in Baltimore.
The first o£ these cases is of a civil nature,
involving a petition by a colored resident
for an injunction to restrain the police de-
partment from enforcing certain parts of
the ordinance. This case has now gone too
far to permit the raising of the direct ques-
tion of invalidity before the writ issues.
“The other case is a criminal one, and
arises out of the arrest of a colored man for
an alleged violation of the ordinance. This
is the case upon which Mr. Hawkins is rely-
ing to make a test case. No proceedings
have yet been taken, but we have decided
to move the case for trial at once and raise
the constitutional question of invalidity at
the opening by a motion to quash the indict-
ment. The prosecuting attorney states that
this course will be satisfactory to him, as
they are anxious here to have a decision soon
one way or the other. The case will prob-
ably be tried before Judge Elliott, of the
Criminal Court, who enjoys a high reputa-
tion here as an excellent and unprejudiced
judge.
“An alternative method of procedure pre-
sented itself, which was to have the pro-
ceedings in the court below merely formal
and have the matter passed on by an imme-
diate appeal to the highest court of the
State. We have dismissed this alternative
after due deliberation, on the ground that
the appeal could not be heard before next
October, thus causing great delay, and on
the further ground that a carefully consid-
ered decision by a local judge immediately
would have a much more beneficial effect, as
the issue is purely a local one. This result
would be reached by concentrating our
efforts on the argument in the trial court,
and should the outcome be unfavorable, we
can then resort to an appeal in any event.
“Regarding the ordinance itself, we are
of the opinion that the spirit of it is repug-
nant to the Constitution, though it is very
cleverly drawn. Before any fair-minded
court it would probably meet the fate of its
predecessor. In the meantime, citizens, both
white and colored, are coming to look upon
it with disfavor, as, while it affects the
rights of the Negroes directly, it is also hav-
ing a bad effect upon real-estate values in
large sections owned by whites, who for-
merly rented to Negroes, and who are now
unable to do so under its provisions.
“Yours very truly,
“C. Ames Brooks.”
m
During the past month the assistant sec-
retary has spoken at meetings in Philadel-
phia, Baltimore and Washington. In Phila-
delphia the Rev. K. E. Evans arranged that
she should speak at the Girard Avenue (for-
merly Spring Garden) Unitarian Church.
At this meeting Dr. Mossell was present and
gave an interesting account of the fight
against segregation in the public schools.
She spoke, also, before the Sunday school of
the Kenneth Israel Congregation.
As a result of the splendid Washington
meeting, reported in the Easter Crisis, pre-
liminary steps were taken on March 20 to
THE N. A. A. C. P.
23
form a District of Columbia branch, with
the following officers:
President, Rev. J. Milton Waldron.
Vice-President, Mrs. Mary Church
Terrell.
Secretary, Mr. B. G. Brawley.
Treasurer, Prof. George M. Cook.
Chairman of the executive board, Mr.
L.	M. Hershaw.
The branch will send its constitution to the
national board of directors, to be voted
upon by them; then it will be admitted to
membership. The net proceeds of the meet-
ing, amounting to $98 besides The Crisis
subscriptions, the organizer of the meeting
generously forwarded to the headquarters of
the National Association. Professor Spin-
garn, whose stirring account of the work of
the New York Vigilance Committee aroused
tremendous enthusiasm, spent the next day
in Washington, speaking in the various de-
partments of Howard University and also at
the M Street High School.
In Baltimore a small but deeply earnest
group of people met the assistant secretary
and discussed with her the work of the asso-
ciation. On April 2 their constitution, mod-
eled after the constitution of the Bosion
branch, was submitted to the board of direc-
tors of the National Association and was
accepted by the board. Baltimore is now
a regular branch of the association. Its offi-
cers are:
President, Dr. F. N. Cardoza.
Vice-President, Mr. J. Clarence
Chambers.
Secretary, Prof. Thomas W. Turner.
Treasurer: Mr. E. B. Taylor.
The members of the executive committee
are: Mr. Garnett R. Waller, chairman; Mr.
W. Ashbie Hawkins, Dr. Thomas S. Hawk-
ins, Prof. George B. Murphy, Dr. H. J.
Brown and Mr. W. L. Fitzgerold.
On April 11 a public meeting was held in
the Rev. Harvey Johnson’s church, under
the auspices of the Baltimore branch. Every
seat was taken and many stood throughout
the meeting. Mr. W. Ashbie Hawkins pre-
sided, and the speakers were Dr. Du Bois,
Miss Ovington and Dr. J. 0. Spencer, presi-
dent of Morgan College, Baltimore, a school
for Negroes. The two representatives of the
National Association gave a full account of
its scope and work, and Dr. Spencer, in a
ringing speech, expressed his admiration for
the Negroes’ achievements and his sympathy
for them in their struggle for human rights.
The next morning twenty prominent Balti-
more colored women met the association’s
secretary at the house of Mrs. Hawkins,
and passed a resolution, to be presented
at the next branch meeting, that a committee
on education be at once appointed by the
branch. This committee should at once inves-
tigate and strive to improve conditions in
the public schools and should endeavor to
secure entrance for colored students in the
city’s private colleges. The discussion
brought out the fact that two of Baltimore’s
famous institutions of learning violate the
wills of their founders in drawing the color
line. It is evident that the Baltimore branch
will assist the National Association by
obtaining a large membership and will do
valuable and aggressive local work.
Nineteen members joined the association
in March, paying $51 in memberships. Six
were from New York, three from Massachu-
setts, three from Pennsylvania, and one
each from Arkansas, District of Columbia,
Georgia, Illinois, Missouri, New Jersey and
Tennessee.
The last week of March the director of
publicity and research made a short West-
ern trip, speaking before large audiences at
Painesville and Lorain, O., and in Indian-
apolis.
The News, of Bangor, Me., says of the
chairman of our association’s board of direc-
tors: “Oswald Garrison Villard, the pub-
lisher of the New York Evening Post and a
grandson of William Lloyd Garrison, the
famous abolitionist, is traveling through the
North and organizing local societies in the
big cities for the protection of the colored
race against lynchings, burnings at the stake
and other lawless outrages committed
against the innocent blacks in this country.
He contends that the black is the equal of
the white before God and under the laws of
most States. To hear Mr. Villard was to
sympathize with him and indorse his posi-
tion fully. The national association stands
primarily for truth and knowledge, for sim-
ple justice to the colored population, for
defense and protection against lynching and
outrage. There is not a city of any size in
the country which does not need a branch
of this association. The branches should
have their legal aid features and should be
liberally supported by men and women who
really believe in the principles of the
American republic.”
DITORIAL
iiHHiiiimiiiitmiinuiiiimiiiiiiiMiiniiHiiiiiHiinmniitiiHHimiHii
THE NEGRO CHURCH.
T happens that during this
month, in the North,
West and South, there
are meeting the ruling
Methodist ecclesiastical
bodies representing a
membership of 1,175,000 colored Ameri-
cans. Later, in midsummer, the Baptist
conventions, which represent 2,300,000
members, will meet. These three and
a half millions of people represent the
great middle class of colored Americans.
The lowest class of outcasts have never
been reached; the highest class of the
educated and thoughtful are being grad-
ually lost. The great middle mass
remains, and in 35,000 churches holding
$57,000,000 worth of property they form
a peculiar organized government of men.
Under some fifty powerful leaders and
thirty thousand salaried local preachers
they raise and expend over seven mil-
lions of dollars a year.
Before such an organization one must
bow with respect. It has accomplished
much. It has instilled and conserved
morals, it has helped family life, it has
taught and developed ability and given
the colored man his best business train-
ing. It has planted in every city and
town of the Union, with few exceptions,
meeting places for colored folk which
vary from shelters to luxurious and
beautiful edifices.
Notwithstanding this, all is not well
with the colored church. First, its fifty
leaders are in too many cases not the
men they should be. This is not peculiar
to the Negro church, but it is true to a
larger degree than is healthful. We
can point to pure-minded, efficient, unsel-
fish prelates like the late Bishop Paine,
the present Bishop Lee and J. W. White.
We have men of scholarship and stand-
ing like Bishop J. Albert Johnson, and
we have efficient men of affairs like John
F.	Hurst, M. C. B. Mason and
R. H. Boyd.
The trouble is, however, this: there
are too few such men. The paths and
the higher places are choked with pre-
tentious ill-trained men and in far too
many cases with men dishonest and
otherwise immoral. Such men make the
way of upright and businesslike candi-
dates for power extremely difficult.
They put an undue premium upon
finesse and personal influence.
Having thus a partially tainted
leadership, small wonder that the $30,000
colored ministers fall as a mass far below
expectations. There are among them
hustling business men, eloquent talkers,
suave companions and hale fellows, but
only here and there does one meet men
like Henry L. Phillips of Philadelphia—
burning spiritual guides of a troubled,
panting people, utterly self-forgetful,
utterly devoted to a great ideal of
righteousness.
Yet this is precisely the type for which
the church—the white church as well
as the black church—is crying. This
is the only type which will hold thought-
ful, reasonable men to membership with
this organization. To-day the tendencies
are not this way. To-day the church is
EDITORIAL
25
still inveighing against dancing and
theatregoing, still blaming educated
people for objecting to silly and empty
sermons, boasting and noise, still build-
ing churches when people need homes
and schools, and persisting in crucifying
critics rather than realizing the hand-
writing on the wall.
Let us trust that these great churches
in conference, remembering the leaders
of the past and conscious of all that the
church has done well, will set their faces
to these deeds:
1.	Electing as bishops and leaders
only men of honesty, probity and effi-
ciency and rejecting the noisy and
unclean leaders of the thoughtless mob.
2.	Weeding out the ministry so as
to increase the clean apostles of service
and sacrifice.
3.	Initiating positive programs of
education and social uplift and discour-
aging extravagant building and mere
ostentation.
4.	Bending every effort to make the
Negro church a place where colored men
and women of education and energy can
work for the best things regardless of
their belief or disbelief in unimportant
dogmas and ancient and outworn creeds.
THE CONFERENCE AT CHICAGO.
T looks as though the
Fourth Annual Confer-
ence of this association
at Chicago would be
the greatest of any yet
held. This is as it should
be. At last the colored people of the
land and their friends are going to have
a free annual forum where they can
speak like men, confer, and plan move-
ments looking toward eventual emanci-
pation from the galling slavery of the
present.
Several times this has been attempted.
Beginning in Philadelphia in 1S30, there
were a series of conferences up until
about 1836, in which colored people and
friends like William Lloyd Garrison dis-
cussed their ills. Then there was a lull
until the conventions of 1S47 at Troy,
of 1852 at Rochester and 1856 at Chat-
ham, Ontario. These were stirring meet-
ings, where Frederick Douglass, John
Brown and the great leaders of the day
discussed emigration and revolt.
After the war came a series of meet-
ings North and South, at Syracuse, at
Nashville and at Washington. Then the
mists of reconstruction discourage-
ment bowed the millions down until
1890, when the Afro-American Coun-
cil was born. This was a worthy
organization, but after a struggle of
fifteen years it was done to death
in Chicago by a shameful conspiracy
engineered by black men who were
paid to make their fellows stop
protesting. There were feeble attempts
at resuscitation at St. Paul and Louis-
ville, but the real revivification came
when the Niagara Movement, a small
group of determined men, met at Niagara
in 1905 and voiced a stinging protest
which is still echoing in the land. In
vain was the movement slandered and
misrepresented. It had to be listened
to and it had large influence in the call
for the Negro Conference in New York
in 1909. Out of that conference grew the
National Association for the Advance-
ment of Colored People.
To-day we meet a fourth time. We
meet to protest, but not simply to pro-
test. We can point to deeds done, to
plans carefully laid, to widespread co-
operation and to The Crisis. We can
point, too, to the word of Phillips:
The proper time to maintain one’s
rights is when they are denied; the
proper persons to maintain them are
those to wham they are denied.
EDUCATION.
HE fifteenth annual Con-
ference for Education
in the South was held in
Nashville on April 3, 4
and 5. As usual, the col-
ored people were not
represented, save on the opening night,
when, mirabile dictu, a delegation from
26
THE
CRISIS
Fisk University occupied seats on
the floor of the great convention hall,
the gallery of which was crowded by at
least 1,500 white studentsof the various
educational institutions located in Nash-
ville. This admission of Fisk in itself
was a^st&p forward, but no colored
orator had an opportunity to plead for
his race, and the Middle Tennessee Col-
ored Teachers? Association met in the
city simultaneously without a single
representative of the conference appear-
ing before these colored men and
women.
But while the conference did not per-
mit a representative of thirty per cent,
of the people in whose behalf it is labor-
ing to appear before it—there was con-
siderable ill-feeling among the colored
people in Nashville prior to the conven-
tion when this became known—it is
undeniable that there was greater free-
dom of speech allowed at this confer-
ence than at any other. The plea for
universal education for all children,
black or wrhite, was heard at almost
every session, and there were two very
interesting subconferences on the edu-
cation of the Negro, presided over by
Dr. James H. Dillard, the executive sec-
retary of the Slater Fund and Jeanes
Foundation, whose work on behalf of
the Negro deserves the highest praise.
He stated, among other things, that
while it was the fashion in the South,
and rightly so, to praise the old-time
Negro mammy, he thought that the
splendid devotion of the colored women
now working in the schools for their
race was still more worthy of recogni-
tion and praise.
The national association was repre-
sented at this conference by its execu-
tive chairman, and Dr. Dillard agreed
to co-operate with the association and
other agencies in compiling a list of the
worthy, and also another of one of the
unworthy, schools for the Negro in the
South of the college or industrial type.
It was interesting to note the eager-
ness to discuss the question of Negro
education by the Southern white men
and women who participated. One of
the ablest of the latter made a plea that
if an organization for the supervision of
the Negro schools were established the
colored men should have equal partici-
pation with the white. For, she said,
being herself disfranchised and belong-
ing to a sex whose interests in public
matters such as schooling had heretofore
been administered by men who did not
represent her sex, she could sympathize
with any colored man who felt that he
ought to have a hearing where the inter-
ests of his race were being discussed and
managed.
."One of the most significant addresses
of the main conference was delivered on
the last evening by Mr. W. D. Weather-
ford, of the national committee of the
Y. M. C. A., on the education of the
Negro in the South. It is so admirable
a statement of the case that the national
association expects to reprint it as one
of its leaflets. His statement that young
college men in the South in increasing
numbers are devoting themselves to the
work among the colored people was
most encouraging to hear. Indeed, the
whole tone and nature of the confer-
ence, despite the exclusion of Negro
delegates, showed that in the South, too,
progress is being made in the right
direction. Ten years ago nobody dared
advocate universal Negro education
■without apologizing for it. Any South-
erner who advocated educating the
Negro had to apologize for doing so.
Nobody thought of apologizing at Nash-
ville, and fifteen years hence, wre trust,
it will seem perfectly natural to have
colored men speaking for their race at
all these gatherings.
m
THE BAB AT THE BAB.
N seeking to defend their
indefensible position the
executive committee of
the American Bar Asso-
ciation has declared that
the election of a colored
man to membership was a new and
EDITORIAL
27
unprecedented action. This is flat
untruth.
There are to-day Negro members of
the American Bar Association and there
were such members before Mr. Lewis
was elected. We present in our columns
this month the picture of a gentleman
who is a member of the Bar Association
and whose name appears printed in
their reports. Mr. Morris is a dark-
brown man whose identity with the
Negro-American is as unquestionable as
is his high standing at the Minnesota
bar.
Not only has Mr. Morris been a mem-
ber of the Bar Association for some
years, but another colored man, Mr. But-
ler Wilson of Massachusetts, was elected
to membership at the same time with
Mr. Lewis and was a member of the
local entertainment committee that wel-
comed the association to Boston.
Attorney-General Wickersham has
brought these facts to the notice of the
secretary of the Bar Association and also
pointed out some peculiar discrepancies
in the printed record of members. Does
this perturb the nimble Mr. George
Whitelock? Not in the least. The same
gentleman who wrote originally “No
person whatever of another race (i. e.,
than the white race) has been elected
to membership/ ’ with great dignity
says “I shall investigate the facts/’
Three weeks later he has “confirmation
of your recent statement, ’ ’ but—and we
commend this severe and subtle logic to
the groundlings—“I do not understand
that you claim to represent Messrs.
Wilson and Morris, but that in connec-
tion with your espousal of the cause of
Mr. William H. Lewis you direct atten-
tion to them, upon the theory that there
has been undue discrimination against
Mr. Lewis. His status has induced the
series of your letters to me beginning on
January 24, 1912. You are already
aware that there was no declaration in
the Lewis instance of ineligibility of
colored men to membership in the asso-
ciation, but only a recision of the par-
ticular election by the committee, which
had occurred without knowledge on its
part of the candidate’s race—regarded
as a material consideration in electing.”
We are free to say that this logic seems
to us unanswerable.
LYNCHING AGAIN.
N another column we quote
from ex-Governor North-
ern a statement worth
repeating, that there
may be “one hundred
thousand murderous
white men loose in Georgia, not one of
whom has ever been brought to trial
and punished for the crime of murder.
This statement may furnish one further
means for determining the criminal pop-
ulation of our criminal State, as between
Negroes and white men as to numbers.”
Despite this wretched state of affairs
our appeal to President Taft brings this
reply from the United States Depart-
ment of Justice:
“Through reference from the Presi-
dent the Department is in receipt of your
letter of the 16th instant transmitting
copy of resolutions concerning mob vio-
lence adopted by the National Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Colored
People at a mass meeting held in New
York City November 15, 1911.
“There is no authority in the United
States Government to interfere because
the parties committing such crimes vio-
late the laws of the State where the
offense is committed and are punish-
able in its courts having jurisdiction of
the offense. The Federal authorities
are not authorized to intervene unless it
be for the purpose of protecting a citi-
zen in the exercise of rights which he
possesses by virtue of the Constitution
and laws of the United States.”
Well, in the name of justice, what
rights does an American possess “by
virtue of the Constitution and laws of
the United States” if it is not the right
not to “be deprived of life, liberty or
property without due process of law”
as the Fifth Amendment guarantees?
28
THE CRISIS
		■ U-V	;	A		t ■
				■’	Sk. '• '"•y
■	•. VWY‘.- ■	,					m
JOINT BOA-RD OF BISHOPS OF THE THREE COLORED METHODIST DENOMINATIONS
WHICH MET AT WASHINGTON, 1907
THE NEGRO-AMERICAN CHURCH
HE editors of The Crisis
have asked four leading
churchmen representing the
four largest denominations
among colored people to
give The Crisis a state-
ment of the present con-
dition of these churches. All have complied
except in the case of the Zion Church; the
notes concerning that church and the smaller
denominations were prepared in this office.
The Christian Church did but little to
convert the slaves from their Obeah worship
and primitive religion until the establishment
of the Society for the Propagation of the
Gospel in Foreign Parts, in 1701; this
society and the rising Methodists and Bap-
tists rapidly brought the body of slaves into
nominal communion with the Christian
Church. No sooner, however, did they
appear in the church than discrimination
began to be practised which the free Negroes
of the North refused to accept. They there-
fore withdrew into the African Methodist
and Zion Methodist Churches. The Baptists
even among the slaves early had their sep-
arate churches, and these churches in the
North began to federate about 1S36. In 1871
the Methodist Church, South, set aside their
colored members into the Colored Methodist
Episcopal Church, and the other Southern
churches drove their members into the other
colored churches. The remaining Northern
denominations retained their Negro members,
THE NEGRO-AMERICAN CHURCH
29
but organized them for the most part into
separate congregations.
Practically, then, the seven-eighths of the
whole Negro population is included in its
own self-sustaining, self-governing church
bodies. Nearly all of the other eighth is eco-
nomically autonomous to a very large degree.
a
The African" Methodists.
The most compact and powerful of the
Negro churches is the African Methodist
Episcopal Church. Its membership has
grown from 42 members in 1787 to 200,000
members in 1876 and 494,777 members in
1906. It is governed by a board of bishops,
fifteen to eighteen in number, over whom the
senior bishop, at present the Rt. Rev. Henry
M.	Turner, presides.
The church has 7,000 local organizations,
with property worth over $11,000,000. It
raises about $2,000,000 a year; of this about
$S00,000 goes to pastors, $200,000 to bishops
and presiding elders, and the other million
to schools, missions and general expenses.
There are two publication houses, weekly
papers and a quarterly magazine and some
publication of books. The church supports
over forty schools, of which the largest and
oldest is Wilberforce University, in Ohio.
The church, however, is chiefly note-
worthy on account of its board of bishops.
These bishops are elected for life by a gen-
eral conference meeting every four years.
The membership of the general conference
consists of ministerial and lay delegates; the
clerical delegates are elected from the annual
conferences, one for every thirty ministers.
Two lay delegates for each annual confer-
ence are selected by the* representatives of
the official church boards in the conference.
Thus we have a peculiar case of Negro gov-
ernment, with elaborate machinery and the
experience of a hundred years. How has it
succeeded? Its financial and numerical suc-
cess has been remarkable, as has been shown.
Moreover, the bishops elected form a remark-
able series of personalities. Together the
assembled bishops are perhaps the most
striking body of Negroes in the world in per-
sonal appearance: men of massive physique,
clear-cut faces and undoubted intelligence.
Altogether the church has elected thirty-five
bishops. These men fall into about five
classes. First, there were those who repre-
sented the old type of Negro preacher—men
of little learning, honest and of fair char-
acter, capable of following other leaders.
Perhaps five or six of the African Methodist
Episcopal bishops have been of this type,
but they have nearly all passed away. From
them developed, on the oue hand, four men
of aggressive, almost riotous energy, who by
their personality thrust the church forward.
While such men did much for the physical
growth of the church, they were often men
of questionable character, and in one or two
instances ought never to have been raised to
the bishopric. On the other hand, in the
case of four other bishops, the goodness of
the older class developed toward intense,
almost ascetic piety, represented pre-emi-
nently in the late Daniel Payne, a man of
almost fanatic enthusiasm, of simple and
pure life and unstained reputation, and of
great intellectual ability. The African
Methodist Episcopal Church owes more to
him than to any single man, and the class of
bishops he represents is the salt of the
organization. Such a business plant natu-
rally has called to the front many men of
business ability, and perhaps five bishops
may be classed as financiers and overseers.
The rest of the men who have sat on the
bench rose for various reasons as popular
leaders: by powerful preaching, by pleasing
manners, by impressive personal appearance.
They have usually been men of ordinary
attainment, with characters neither better
nor worse than the middle classes of their
race. Once in office, they have usually grown
in efficiency and character. On the whole,
then, this experiment in Negro government
has been distinctly encouraging. It has
brought forward men varying in character,
some good and some bad, but on the whole
decency and ability have been decidedly in
the ascendancy and the church has pros-
pered.
The General Conference, which meets in
Kansas City, Mo., May 6-27, is a quadren-
nial meeting having the highest legislative
and judicial authority'. Meeting as seldom
as it does, it is necessarily a body of great
importance. Its membership will be 522.
consisting of the bishops, heads of general
departments, presidents of colleges and min-
isterial and lay delegates representing Amer-
ican and African conferences. The revision
of the discipline and the election of bishops
and heads of departments will be the chief
business of the session. In the former will
be the provision for pensioning superannu-
ated preachers, widows and ^ children of
30
THE
CRISIS
deceased ministers and support of mission-
aries. There are upward of 1,000 depend-
ents who must be adequately provided for.
The publishing interests of the church will
be brought up in a resolution to combine the
management of the Nashville and Philadel-
phia houses.
The missionary work in West Africa will
call for readjustment, while the home work
will call for more definite attention.
The distribution of the “dollar money,”
i.	e., the $1 per year required of each mem-
ber, will be so readjusted as to allow a larger
percentage to preachers’ aid. Preparation
for the celebration of the centennial of the
church will occupy some attention. This will
probably be held in Philadelphia, where the
church was founded. An effort will also be
made to relieve the various editors of church
publications of business responsibilities and
also to create a position of general editor
of Sunday-school literature, as distinct from
secretary of the Sunday School Union.
Five bishops will probably be elected. For
election to the bishopric there are not less
than fifty men who are mentioned, represent-
ing varied degrees of culture, education,
moral character, Christian piety, executive
ability and successful pastoral records.
Those who seem to be in the lead are: M.
M.	Ponton, president of Campbell College,
Mississippi; D. P. Roberts, of Illinois; John
Hurst, financial secretary, of Maryland; J.
M.	Conner, of Arkansas; T. N. M. Smith, of
Georgia; W. W. Beckett, missionary secre-
tary, and Dr. H. T. Kcaling, president of
Western University, Kansas. For heads of
departments most of the present officers will
be re-elected.
m
The Methodists.
One of the largest Protestant denomina-
tions of America is the Methodist Episcopal
Church. It has missions in all parts of the
world, and its membership aggregates three
and one-half million. As an integral part
of this great church there are three hundred
and twenty-five thousand American Negroes.
These colored members have constitutional
rights and privileges equal with the white
members, and the basis for representation
in the General Conference is the same for all
races.
At the forthcoming General Conference,
besides the white and colored American
races, there will be Japanese, Koreans, Chin-
ese, Europeans, East Indians and Mexicans.
The Negro conferences, twenty in number,
will have ninety-two delegates out of a
total of eight hundred and twenty. The
standing committees, which have about two
hundred and fifty members, include forty
Negroes. In several of the committees
Negroes serve as secretaries. Indeed three
of the assistant secretaries of the General
Conference are Negroes and upon every
important committee, save one, the Negroes
have representatives.
The three hundred and twenty-five
thousand colored members, mentioned above,
are organized into twenty conferences, with
two thousand one hundred and seventy-nine
mi lusters. The twenty conferences have,
church property valued at $6,347,727 and
parsonages, with a value of $860,221; a total
wealth in probable 'property values alone
aggregating $7,200,943.
Nine Negroes of the church are general
officers of the General Boards. These are
Bishop I. B. Scott, Dr. M. C. B. Mason,
secretary of the Freedmen’s Aid Society,
Dr. R. E. Jones, editor of the Southwestern
Christian Advocate, and six others. These
men receive an average salary of $2,233.33
and traveling expenses. Besides these officers
there are eleven university, college and
academy presidents and principals, and
two hundred Negro professors and teachers
in twenty-three schools. The enrollment of
these schools for 1911 was seven thousand
one hundred and thirty and the twenty-three
colored conferences contributed $26,785.50
to education, besides $134,086.10 paid in by
the students for tuition, board and other
expenses.
Many and varied problems will face the
General Conference when it meets at Min-
neapolis this month. Among the questions to
be discussed will be the amusement problem
and the time limitation of the pastorate.
The question, however, which overshadows
all others is that of the Episcopacy. There
is a sentiment in favor of increasing the
effective bishops; indeed some have advocated
an increase by the number of twelve. In
the discussion of the Episcopacy the ques-
tion of a colored bishop must necessarily
be considered. Since 1872 the Negro mem-
bers of the church have contended for a
bishop of their own race, and the General
Conference by resolution in 1896 and 1900
THE NEGRO-AMERICAN CHURCH
31
DR. M. C. B. MASON	REV. E. M. JONES	DR. ROBERT E. JONES
Prominent Candidates for the M. E. Bishopric
‘‘recognized the need of such an officer” and
added that “the time has come when such an
officer might wisely and safely be elected.”
The whole question is an exceedingly “live
wire.” The Southicestern Christian Advo-
cate, the official organ of the Negro con-
stituency, has spoken strongly in favor of
a Negro bishop, while four other influential
church papers with white editors are advo-
cating the election of a Negro to the
bishopric.
In a' recent editorial the Northwestern
Christian Advocate, published in Chicago,
says:
“It is to be hoped that the coming General
Conference will show itself superior to the
prejudice of race or color. The Negroes
have, to our mind, three indisputable claims
to consideration in the matter of their
demands for bishops of their own race:
“First, the problem of the Negro is a
problem by itself.
“Second, naturally the problem can be best
interpreted b\r a capable Negro.
“Third, there are capable Negroes to inter-
pret the problem.”
Should a Negro be called to the Episco-
pacy of the Methodist Episcopal Church he
will, in all likelihood, be Dr. M. C. B.
Mason of the Freedmen’s Aid Society, Dr.
R. E. Jones of the Southwestern Christian
Advocate, or Dr. P. O’Connell of Howard
University.
The Colored Methodist Episcopal Church
Before the Civil War Negro Methodists in
the South were members of the Methodist
Episcopal Church South. In many instances
slaves and slave owners worshipped in the
same churches, and in those cases where
separate church buildings were provided for
the slaves the pastors and Sunday-school
teachers were white. Negroes of exceptional
gifts were sometimes ordained as local
preachers, and allowed to administer the
sacraments under the direction of their white
pastors. Noteworthy among those white
pastors of Negro congregations was Bishop
William Capers of South Carolina, who
walked from plantation to plantation estab-
lishing missions for the slaves, and coimted
that, the greatest work of his long ministry.
This inscription is on the modest shaft that
marks his resting place:
“william capers, founder of
MISSIONS TO THE SLAVES.”
After the sudden and sweeping changes in
the social and political relations of the races
following the war it became necessary to
organize a separate church for the more
than 100,000 Methodist freedmen. Accord-
ingly the General Conference of the Metho-
dist Episcopal Church South which met at
Memphis, Tenn., in May, 1S70, appointed a
committee to confer with certain colored
leaders with a view to organizing the col-
32
THE CRISIS
ored churches into annual conferences and
ultimately into a General Conference. In
December of the same year, after the organi-
zation of five annual conferences, a General
Conference was called. Bishop Robert
Paine of the Methodist Episcopal Church
South presided. The organization was named
the Colored Methodist Episcopal Church.
Two bishops were elected—R. H. Vander-
horst of South Carolina and W. H. Miles of
Kentucky. Bishop Paine administered the
right of ordination. By due process of law
all church property that had been devoted to
the exclusive use of the colored people was
deeded by the Methodist Episcopal Church
South to the Colored Methodist Episcopal
Church.
According to the statistics of 1911, the
Colored Methodist Episcopal Church ranks
twenty-first in the order of churches of
America, fifth in the order of Methodist
Churches and third in the order of Negro
Methodist Churches. It has two hundred
and thirty-four thousand seven hundred
and twenty-one members, two thousand
eight hundred and fifty-seven churches,
two thousand nine hundred and one minis-
ters, five general officers and seven bishops.
It has church property valued at $2,525,000,
school property valued at $300,000, and a
publishing plant worth $75,000.
The educational work of the church has
experienced remarkable growth in recent
years. The church supports four colleges
and a number of secondary schools, and co-
operates with the Methodist Episcopal
Church South in the support of Paine College.
When Governor Vardaman abolished the
colored high school at Holly Springs, Miss.,
several years ago, Bishop Cottrell organized
a church school in the same city, and has
since collected from the Negroes of Missis-
sippi more than $130,000 for buildings and
running expenses. In a single rally in
Alabama Bishop Williams raised $11,000 for
Miles Memorial College, and in a few weeks
after that Bishop Phillips raised more than
$12,000 in Texas for Texas College, Tyler,
Texas. Bishop Lane, who is now 78 years
old, is still pushing the claims of Lane Col-
lege, Jackson, Tenn. Because of the very
poor public-school system for Negroes in
Georgia, Bishop Holsey is urging the
church to maintain a chain of preparatory
schools. The Methodist Episcopal Church
South contributes $20,000 a year to the
educational work of the Colored Methodist
Episcopal Church. Considerably more than
half of this amount goes to Paine College,
Augusta, Ga., the school founded by the
late George Williams Walker, and unique in
that it has a faculty composed of colored
and Southern white teachers, who work
together harmoniously on terms of absolute
eq uality.
Previous to the General Conference of
1910 the missionary work of the church was
confined to the home field. At that con-
ference a commimication was received from
the General Conference of the Methodist
Episcopal Church South, in session at the
same time, proposing that the two churches
co-operate in establishing a mission post in
Africa. It was further proposed that a
committee of two, consisting of a represen-
tative from each church, be sent to Africa
as soon after the conference as possible
for the purpose of finding a suitable loca-
tion for the mission. Bishop W. R. Lam-
buth of the Methodist Episcopal Church
South and Dr. J. W. Gilbert of the Colored
Methodist Episcopal Church were appointed
to make this trip. They sailed for Africa
last October, and are now in the Congo
Beige, where in all probability the post will
be established.
The General Conference does not convene
until 1914; therefore there are no well-defined
issues before the church at this time,
but there is deep interest throughout the
church in the issues that will come before
the General Conferences of other Methodist
Churches this year.
8i
The Zion Church.
The A. M. E. Zion Church represents a
revolt of the colored people of New 'iork
City against the discrimination in the
Methodist Church. The revolt began late in
the eighteeenth century, but did not become
complete imtil the election of the first bishop
in 1820. The quadrennial session of the
church takes place in Charlotte, N. C., May
1.	The church has at present about one
hundred and eighty thousand communicants,
which is a falling off from its former mem-
bership. There seems to be a strong feeling
that there is need of a radical reform within
the church in several departments, especially
with its financial affairs. Instead of having
a central depository for all church funds,
out of which the various departments receive
their income, there has been in vogue a
THE NEGRO-AMERICAN CHURCH
33
system by which the church tares go directly
to the different departments. This involves
a great deal of additional expense and great
difficulty of supervision, and a large element
in the church wishes to establish a central
board. The support of the widows, orphans
and superannuated preachers is another
pressing matter which calls for attention.
It is also thought that some forward steps
will be taken along the line of missionary7
enterprises. The educational work is per-
haps the most satisfactory part of the work
of the organization. Under the leadership
of Mr. S. G. Atkins, the various schools and
Livingstone College have increased in effi-
ciency and strength.
There are eight bishops on the full board;
the vacancies in the board will be filled and
there is some demand for an increase in
number. Probably this will not take place,
as the church can scarcely afford it. Besides
the bishops, there are to be chosen the editors
of the weekly paper, the Star of Zion, and
of one or two other periodicals.
Other Denominations.
Outside the five main denominations
mentioned above there are one hundred and
fifty7 thousand colored members of the Catho-
lic, Protestant Episcopal, Presbyterian and
other white denominations.
The status of the colored Catholic in the
United States is not yet thoroughly settled,
•but it is improving. After the unsuccessful
attempt of Father Slattery7 of Baltimore to
push the cause of the colored people, the
subject was dropped, but has been recently
revived by the interest of Sister Katherine
Drexel and others. There are now four
colored priests, several schools and a grow-
ing number of churches.
The Episcopal Church has never been
able to emerge from the slough of despond
on this question into which its strong South-
ern constituency plunges it. Here is an old
unusually intelligent colored membership
with fifty or more well-educated priests.
Over them are white bishops who (with a
few exceptions) do not or cannot sympathize
with their black membership or encourage
their growth and development. A way out
of this difficulty would be to have black
bishops or at least black suffragan bishops.
This is being urged, especially by Bishop
Guerry in South Carolina, but the rector of
St. Paul’s, Charleston, says:
“A member of an inferior race to be bishop
of the Church of God would detract from
the prestige of every bishop, the authority
of every priest, the confidence of every lay-
man, and would lessen respect for the church
on the part of every man, white or black,
on the American continent. The victory of
Johnson over Jeffries demoralized the Negro
race in a noticeable degree: the White
House-Washington incident created hopes
that can never be realized, yet the honors
accorded the Negro race in both of the
above incidents are trivial and negligible
compared with the delusive ambitions which
would be inspired by the elevation of a
Negro to the company of the Holy Apostles.
The Presbyterians as well as the Episco-
palians have practically segregated all the
colored members into separate churches;
but the latter being largely self-governing
have quite a number of virile churches,
some splendid ministers, and considerable
educational work in the South.
The Twentieth Century, a magazine pub-
lished in Boston, has an earnest article on
the race situation, and says: “The present
relations of the races are intolerable; justice
to both demands that the Negro be allowed
to become the best possible Negro. This
cannot be done where a dominant race
demands servility. Negroes who wish to
colonize should be assisted; and the impulse
might be given where these crimes are per-
mitted. When a proved assault on a white
woman occurs, the Negro population could
be compelled to move to a Negro settlement.
Where an unmistakable assault on a Negro
occurs, the white population could be trans-
ported to a white settlement. The States
would soon learn to co-operate, because only
a few applications of this remedy would be
necessary to induce very different relations,
and subsequent emigrations could be entirely
voluntary. In a nutshell—bind each race to
keep the peace!”
osNimimiiamiiiiiiiiiawiimmiiamiiiiiimaiiiiiiiiimammiiimaiiimimiiGiiiimmiiGmimiimamiiiimiiGimimiiuGuuiJiuiiitg
ki	—
j	SELF-RIGHTEOUS EUROPE	I
|	AND THE WORLD	|
=	Correspondence with	=
| W. M. FLINDERS PETRIE, D.C.L., Litt. D., LL. D., F.R.S. |
E	Professor of Egyptology in the University of London	e
&llllllllllllGlllllilHIIIGIIIIIIIIIIilGlllllillllllGIIIIIIIIIIIIGIIIIIIIIIIIIGIIIIIIIIIIIIGIIIIIimillGllllilllill!GllllllllllilGlllllin!IIIGIIIIIimillCO
EAR SIR: I write to thank
you for having said all you
have in “The Souls of
Black Folk.” I have long
wanted to grasp the Negro
problem, and your prudent,
balanced statement is very
helpful As I am a stranger, I must say what
my point of view is. It is as an anthropologist
and historian; my work for over thirty
years has been digging up the civilization of
Egypt. Many years ago, when president of
the Anthropological Section, North British
Association, I made native races the sub-
ject of that meeting, insisting on the in-
iquity of crushing lower civilizations by
Europeanizing natives. Later I did the Hux-
ley lectures on migrations, mapping all the
movements from 0—1,000 A. D. in Europe.
The subject of race mixture is of special
interest to me, and only this autumn I was
addressing London journalists on the sub-
ject by request. Excuse my saying so much,
just to show you my standpoint: It is that
of native culture and rights, without Euro-
pean uniformity.
Now I think it will be helpful to look at
other cases which have some parallelism to
the U. S. A. problem. Here in Egypt we
have contact of many races. I will here only
compare the native and the English. The
difference of color is not much, a pure-bred
Copt living indoors is lighter than I am liv-
ing out of doors. There is no question of
slavery giving a sense of inequality. There
is no fear of yielding too much in a racial
familiarity. All of these points are in favor
of intercourse more than in U. S. A.
\ et the veil is almost as complete as you
find it to be. There is practically no social
intercourse. I only know of one house, long
since closed, where an educated native could
meet socially with educated Europeans.
Officials of high standing may be invited
just as officials, or very wealthy cosmopoli-
tan natives because of their influence, but
the well-educated native gentleman is un-
known outside of his office. All English
officials are required to travel first class to
avoid even sitting with natives.
I only know of three mixed marriages
with Christians. I doubt if the English
partner was at all in the rim of society of
her or his equals. Broadly, I should say that
any marriage of English east of Greece
would be a social bar; a Greek would be
quite on the border line, depending on if
they were brought up in England.
Now this being the case round the Medi-
terranean, how can you expect any better
state of society in U. S. A.? The echo of
slavery, the great difference of race and the
pressure of the mulatto multitude must
naturally make a thicker veil than even that
of the Old World. I am not speaking per-
sonally in the least. I have had a black
Indian parson living in my London house,
for weeks, with the greatest pleasure to us
all. I am just inviting a Japanese professor
to stay. But, as Berkeley said, “The facts
are as they are, and the consequences will
be what they will be.” The facts are that
the English race all over the world insists
on the veil; and, least of all in U. S. A.,
can you expect to find a more liberal
exception. So much for our faults or
peculiarities.
Now let me turn to the Englishman’s ob-
jections to the native. These will not neces-
sarily apply in any case to the U. S. A.
difficulties, but they will show what over here
gives substance to this veil. I write from
thirty years of close intercourse with my
own workmen, of whom I am personally
very fond, and who will come and join me
anywhere to work with us.
No Egyptian trusts another. Cheating
over every transaction is the rule; an illiter-
ate native expects to be cheated over every
SELF-RIGHTEOUS EUROPE
35
railway ticket he takes, over any telegram
he sends. I have constantly found gross
imposition going on. You must be hammer
or anvil; and the native official of the small-
est kind will bully when he can, or else
cringe. Honest, self-respecting men are rare
to meet. As soon as a native thinks that
von have any kindness or consideration for
him he at once tries to turn it into solid
benefits, without the least notion that his
doing so destroys the bond. I have learned
to keep two entirely different manners for
my men; as helpful and friendly as can be
outside of the work, but on work the dis-
obedience or any lie or cheating means
instant dismissal, and no man dares to plead
for another. This is the only road to re-
spect and popularity.
Education of book and memory sort is an
injur}’ in most cases. It depends on ances-
try; the Arab is generally spoiled by it, the
Copt, with a hundred generations of literary
ancestors, is generally benefited. I should
say that some technical and trade teaching
and hygiene would benefit all. Not more
than 5 per cent, would be the better for
reading and writing, just to supply the
miuor official staff, but no useless subjects
shoidd be taught. Not more than one in 1,000
would really benefit by higher education.
To give more only produces a moral deterio-
ration. Little ignoramuses, who are far be-
low the ability of a small shopkeeper in
England, will generally assume a complete
equality, if not superiority, with a well-edu-
.cated Englishman. It is their hopeless igno-
rance, which a little unfit schooling has only
fostered. I often think that in England and
elsewhere we most need in colleges a pro-
fessor of ignorance, whose sole business
would be showing the vast void in general
knowledge, making students know how little
they know, running over all the subjects
that are not taught and making it felt how
vast they are.
Perhaps you know that there is a pro-
found unbelief in all our educational routine
in England. Those who can detach them-
selves enough feel that much of the aim and
more of the method is wrong. It is all con-
structed for easy examining wholesale. The
head of one of our great universities said,
after a talk about some cases: “Well, X
makes one doubt whether education is of any
good, after all.” Education in the formal
lines will no more clear the Negro problem
than freedom or voting, and to hold it
up as a certain panacea will only end in
another collapse of deception.
Allow me to say—as a fellow teacher—
what lines Egyptian experience would sug-
gest. It may have a bearing on your
problem.
Apart from reading the principles and
underlying reasons of agriculture, element-
ary mechanics and the basis of political
economy—that the maximum production
must benefit all, and that production is more
honorable than trading. For towns, me-
chanical teaching, instead of agriculture.
With reading, biography and history,
rather than literature; lives such as Liv-
ingston and the engineers; later, Plutarch;
of course, Bible is taken for granted. Later,
history of nations, not politics or constitu-
tions, but social and economic. An admir-
able book would be part of Martin Hume’s
“The Spanish People,” 1901, showing how
false economics, pride and bigotry utterly
ruined Spain. Parts of Mommsen’s "History
of Rome,” showing the hopeless decay of
parties and the inevitableness of economic
change, would be equally good. English his-
tory is less useful, because it does not yet
cross such great economic collapses as those
of Spain and Italy, and the lessons which
are most needed are not so obvious. All
political ideals and figureheads should be
kept in the background. We want men to
make the most of the earth, before they are
fired to waste themselves and their fellows
in vain vaporings by reading of Gracchus
or Washington. I doubt if any political
agitation has ever gained as much as it has
wasted.
Now another line as to what may perhaps
be the ultimate result of the Negro problem.
In Europe all migration for a thousand
years was from the East; yet the color map
of Europe shows an even grading from the
tow-haired blonde of the North to the curly
black hair and black eyes of the South. Cli-
mate has completely conquered race. In no
land have two different races existed side be-
side for 1,000 years without fusion. I can-
not therefore doubt that a thousand years
hence there will be an evenly graded Ameri-
can, from a white North to a black South.
The only rational course is to help nature
and make it easy for inevitable changes to
take place. How can this be done?
First the whites must be bought out, be-
ginning with a State where there are few-
est. In Ireland the polic}' of the last ten
36
THE CRISIS
years has largely succeeded, of a govern-
ment loan to buy out landlords (at twenty-
two years net rental), and to let to the ten-
ant under government at a rental which will
give proprietorship to the next generation.
The educated men accustomed to business
that are needed to carry out the details of
management should be the successful Ne-
groes of the North. Such a policy steadily
carried on at every opportunity that offers,
without any violence, would soon transform
a State; the more were bought out the more
would wish to leave. Looking at the rate
of change in Ireland, I expect that the whole
change in U. S. A. might be got through in
a century, perhaps quicker.
Of course, all land acquired thus must be
inalienable, especially to Russian Jews. A
law that no colored man can raise money
on security of land or stock would settle
that. In Egypt the money lender was an
awful curse. It was the extortions of Greek
usurers that caused the Arabi rebellion.
Mommsen gives an awful picture of the
wreck of the world caused by Roman usurers.
Here the matter has been set pretty
straight by a government agricultural bank,
which lends at low interest on land or crops.
If the borrower fails, another native gets in,
and the foreign leech is kept away. You
would need such an agricultural bank to get
rid of “furnishing” and “cropping.”
In short, the example of other countries
points to the policy of securing a State or
a part of a State, solid black, no profits
going to white men. Put all the pride of
the Negro people into bringing that into the
most successful economic condition possible.
Make the prosperity of it the ambition of
every Negro in U. S. A.; extend this sys-
tem by land purchase and agricultural
banks as quickly as it succeeds, but never
in advance of the solid economic stability of
what is already in hand. Leave politics
entirely alone until economic success is
assured. When such a State is in flourishing
order, then its black leaders will take their
seats at Washington like any other State
representatives. To concentrate the Negro
aspirations on steady economic success in
their own hands seems—from the example
of other lands—to be the real solution of
the miserable result of past crimes.
I trust that you will forgive this intrusion
of one who can only look on from a dis-
tance; but the comparison with proven con-
ditions in other cases may have its uses. The
one great lesson which all history seems to
me to teach is that character and economics
are the only real forces. No laws or politics
can stop their action; and the hindrances
which false legislation may impose for a
time are less loss in the long run than the
economic waste of any violent action.
Believe me,
Yours truly,
W. M. Flinders Petrie.
m
My Dear Sir:
I thank you very much for your letter of
January 3 and for your kind words con-
cerning my book. You will also permit me,
I know, to comment on some of the matters
upon which you have touched in your letter.
The Englishman's objection to the native
sounds very familiar to me. I can see noth-
ing in the objection except the very human
dislike for cheating and ignorance and lack
of self-respect. This objection is world-
wide and age old. The great point is, how-
ever, how to meet it, and I am sorry to see
that apparently you sympathize with meth-
ods of meeting it which have been, to my
mind, only too much in vogue during the
world's history—the stern driving of men,
the denial of education, and the general
assumption that men must remain as they are
for an indefinite time. To all these I take
very serious exception.
The direction of human beings in their
work and development calls for ability and
firmness, but does not call for that attitude
which the white European and the white
American take toward colored races. That
attitude does not in the long run succeed in
getting out of colored labor anywhere near
the best that is in it. It engenders hatred,
it leads to caste and disaster, and while it is
based on a difference of character, it very
easily is used on occasions when the only
difference is a difference of color or form
of nose.
In the matter of education, again I think
you make a mistake in common with the
modern white world. What you say con-
cerning the spoiling of primitive peoples by
education is exactly the same thing that was
said and is said in the United States. To
educate the Negro was to spoil the plough
hand. Educated Negroes never could
amount to anything, etc. I know distinctly
SELF-RIGHTEOUS EUROPE
37
in my own case that there was strong advice
given my parents and my people against
educating me, and if your ideas had been
carried out in the United States—and there
are many people trying to carry them out—
I should not be having the pleasure of com-
municating with you now. On the contrary,
I should probably be the victim of that
“manner” which you use to your underlings
in Egypt. Whenever one tries by form of
education to raise a people the percentage
of failure and mistake is going to be large,
but such failure is no argument against the
attempt, and, on the whole, it has been pos-
sible in the past, and it is possible to-day
by means of education, to enable a group
to take a short cut across a thousand years
of human culture and do in a generation
what their fathers did in three or ten.
I have seen in the Negro race here in
America a good many cases of moral deteri-
oration arising from education. It has been
proverbial in the United States, not simply
with colored people, but with white people,
that the “second generation” is very apt to
be spoiled, sometimes utterly ruined. But
this is no argument against education. I
know, of course, that the people in England
are revolting against the English method of
education, and in that they show their sense.
There is a large revolt in the United States.
Our methods of education have got to be
improved undoubtedly, but that does not
mean that the basis of education will not be
in the future, as it has been to some extent
in the past, the training of thought and
ability by means of the truth.
As to the course of study which you lay
down for Egyptians, and which is quite simi-
lar to that which some people would lay
down for my people in the United States,
I object to it. I do not believe that “pro-
duction” is more honorable than trade.
Trade is production. I do not believe that
any agricultural caste should be trained, and
I do not believe that politics should be left
out of the course of training. My thesis is
proven, it seems to me, by applying it to
the future of the Negro of the United
States.
You believe that the best thing would be
a sort of segregation of the black popula-
tion in a few States, so that from this popu-
lation would have a chance to develop to its
best unhampered, and yet you wish that
population to have no education in politics
and to leave politics alone. This seems to
me a most remarkable prediction. How is
this State to support itself, to think its
way through its great social problems, to
supply itself with a governing class, and do
the thousand and one things that a modern
State ought to do, if its folks have no edu-
cation in politics? Moreover, if this people
do all these things, what is going to keep
them from becoming the victims of the
greed of their white neighbors just as soon
as they have anything that those white
neighbors want? Or, in other words, you
suppose on the part of white people an
unselfishness and a desire to guide and help
other races which white people have never
exhibited, save in very exceptional and indi-
vidual cases. On the whole, their conduct
with other people has been about as dis-
graceful a chapter in history as history
affords.
Almost everything that you propose
should be done for the colored people in
this segregation they are already doing for
themselves. They are buying land, and
buying it without Government intervention,
although Government intervention would
greatly help them. They already have some
forty banks which are supplying capital in
small amounts, and they have, thank God,
in spite of advice, too much sense to let
politics alone, and it is their political power
alone that keeps them from sinking to the
state of the Egyptian fellahin.
I know you will pardon this frank ex-
pression of my views.
I beg to remain,
Very sincerely yours,
W. E. B. Du Bois.
S3
•	•	• Now, you propose to quote
some of my letter. So far as you may agr.ee
with any of it, pray do so. But I should be
very sorry to appear as if defending a state
of feelings and relations which I was only
describing to you in order to point out that
it is general, and not peculiar to your diffi-
culties. I do not wish, therefore, to be put
forward as opposed to any of the activities
which you so earnestly desire. With mv
sincerest wishes for your progress in the
great cause,
Believe me,
Yours very sincerely,
W. M. Flinders Petrie.
s
rTfH£ work of the Xew York Federation
of Colored Women's Clubs is well
worth noting. For many years there has
been club work among colored women of the
State. The Woman's Loyal Union has
worked for twelve years or more under the
leadership of Miss S. E. Frazier. The clubs
have been federated for four years; for
three of these years Mrs. F. R. Keyser,
superintendent of the White Rose Home, was
president.
These clubs have been engaged in work of
various sons. When the needs of Harriet
Tubman, the heroine of the Civil War, be-
came known, the federation appropriated
$25 a month to pay for a nurse, in addition
to furnishing a room. The White Rose Home
for Working Girls was founded by the late
Victoria Earle Matthews, and is now con-
ducted by Mrs. Keyser. In the last fourteen
years it has sheltered over 5,000 young
women. The Dorcas Home Missionary
Society, under Mrs. Alice Wiley Seay, has
done a great deal of local charitable work.
The Susan B. Anthony Industrial Associ-
ation, of Yonkers, N. Y., maintains a girls’
friendly club, with classes in sewing and
cooking, and gives a prize each year for the
best essay on race history. The Y. W. C. A.
is also a member of the federation, and pro-
vides a home for girls and religious service.
It is hoping to erect a modern building soon.
The Geneva clubs have been helping South-
ern education by sending clothing and main-
taining scholarships. The Phillis Wheatley
Club, of Buffalo, is working among neglected
children and holding mothers' meetings. It
has been active in placing books by Negro
authors in the public library, and has the
nucleus of a fund for establishing an old
folks’ home.
MRS. M. JACKSON STUART
Secretary of the New York Federation
THE BURDEN
39
The president of the federation is Mrs.
M. B. Talbert, who has long been identified
with ever}- movement in Buffalo tending
toward the advancement of her race.
She is a member of the Association of Col-
legiate Alumnae, an officer of the Graded
Teachers’ Union, and president of the Chris-
tian Culture Congress, all of these being
white organizations. Mrs. Talbert was a
member of the first committee, appointed fif-
teen years ago, for the suppression of vice in
Buffalo, and succeeded in sending a woman
officer to the police station to be present
every day. She has twice represented the
National Federation of Colored Women’s
Clubs before the National Council of
Women. Under her administration the
Empire State Federation has made notable
progress.
Mrs. S. E. Wilkerson is vice-president of
the State federation and is interested in
charities in New York and Brooklyn. Mrs.
M. C. Lawton, the State organizer, has done
much to establish clubs and is correspondent
on one of the Brooklyn daily papers. The
secretary of the federation is Mrs. Marie
The Wtut« Bose Society Meeting Travelers
Jackson Stuart, who is also a dramatic reader
of genuine ability.
COLORED MEN LYNCHED WITHOUT
TRIAL.
1SS5		.... 78	1S99			 S4
1SS6		... .	71	1900			107
1SS7		... . SO	1901			107
1SSS			1902			 S6
1SS9			1903			 S6
1890		. .. . 90	1904			 S3
1S91		. .. . 121	1905			 61
1892			1906			 01
1893		... . 154	1907			 60
1894		.... 134	190S			 93
1895			1909			 73
1896		.... SO	1910			 65
1S97		192	1911			 63
1S9S		.... 102		—
Total....				2,521
IN A “JIM CROW” CAR.
General Passenger Agent, So. Rwy.,
Dear Sir:
I write to inform you of the very dis-
graceful conduct of one of your conductors,
and to illustrate to you the almost helpless
condition of colored female travelers over
your line.
At 9 :25 last Monday. December IS, I left
Jacksonville for Washington, D. C. There
were only two passengers in the colored
compartment—a girl about 15 or 16
years of age and myself. As the train
left Jacksonville I fell asleep, but was awak-
ened by the voice of the girl, just before the
train reached Walthonville station. To my
40
THE CRISIS
astonishment, I found the conductor sitting
beside the colored girl, who was crying
“Stop! Stop 1” I was behind them, and
walked up to the seat before the conductor
saw me. I told him he ought to be ashamed
of himself, being an old man and a white
man, to say nothing of his position as con-
ductor of the train. He replied, “Ashamed
of what?” I said, “The way you were treat-
ing that girl.” He mei*ely said he “was just
trying to tease her.”
The girl said that the mau came to her
uninvited and asked her if she had a sweet-
heart. She said he was a white man and
she thought she had to answer him, and so
told him “No.” Then he said, “I’ll be your
sweetheart,” and sat down and tried to hug
her. She said she turned her head toward
the window and cried to him to stop. “But,”
she said, “he was so much stronger than I
that I could not keep him off.” It was her
cry that awakened me.
I report this to you with the hope that
you will investigate it and give this man
proper punishment. This is not, I am sorry
to say, the first case of this sort I have wit-
nessed over your road, though I confess
never to have witnessed anything similar
over any other road.
Very respectfully,
THE WHITE MAN’S RESENTMENT.
SOME sort of a street quarrel occurred
recently in Atlanta in which a white
man and a colored woman were the prin-
cipals. J. E. McJenkins, the man in the
case, who had apparently gone to collect a
bill, took offense at the Atlanta Journals
account of the disturbance and wrote a let-
ter to the editor about it. “I approached the
woman,” he says, “and asked for what was
due my company. She was very insulting
from the beginning, and finally cursed me,
using words not fit for publication. I did
just as I believe any other white man would
have done, resented the insult by striking
her with the first thing I got my hands on.”

HISTORIC DAYS IN MAY
I.	Order given to create the Corps
d’Armee of colored troops, 1863.
5.	Congress declared slave trade piracy,
1820.
6.	South Carolina put duty on the impor-
tation of slaves, 1703.
7.	Toussaint L’Ouverture surrendered to
the French, 1802.
8.	Thaddeus Stevens began debate in Con-
gress on the Fourteenth Amendment, 1866.
9.	General David Hunter issued eman-
cipation proclamation, 1862. John Brown
born, 1800.
10.	Resolution proposing Fourteenth
Amendment passed the House of Repre-
sentatives, 1866.
II.	Slaveholders’ convention at Vicksburg,
Miss., favored the reopening of slave trade,
1859.
12.	Louisiana adopted a revised consti-
tution, 1898.
13.	Robert Smalls took the Confederate
steamer “Planter” to the Union fleet, 1862.
14.	Total abolition of slavery in Brazil,
1888.
15.	National Convention of France gave
civil rights to mulattoes in Haiti, 1791.
18.	Abraham Lincoln nominated for
President, I860.
19.	Charles Sumner delivered in the
Senate the speech entitled “The Crime
Against Kansas,” 1856.
20.	Toussaint L’Ouverture born, 1743.
21.	General Ulysses S. Grant nominated
for President, 186S.
22.	Bureau to supervise organization of
/ colored troops established, 1863.
23.	Assault made on Port Hudson, 1863.
24.	William Lloyd Garrison died, 1S79.
25.	William C. Nell, Negro anti-slavery
worker and author, died, 1874.
26.	Boston town meeting favored aboli-
tion of slavery, 1701.
27.	Toussaint L’Ouverture won his first
battle, 1795.
28.	Fifty-fourth Massachusetts Colored
Regiment embarked for the South, 1863.
29.	President Johnson announced his
plan of reconstruction, 1865.
30.	Employment of slaves as laborers in
the Union lines authorized, 1861.
31.	John A. Andrews, war governor of
Massachusetts, born, 1818.
L. M. Hershaw.
The Testing Fire. Alexander Corkey. The
H.	K. Fly Company.
This book is noteworthy for two reasons.
First because it illustrates again how the
race problem is furnishing material for
modern literature, and, secondly, because it
presents the point of view of a white non-
American toward the color question in the
United States. Mr. Corkey even after living
some years in the South is still unable to
justify the attitude of the white Southerner.
Here is a little anecdote in connection
with this book. The reviewer happened the
other day to be sitting in a car next to a
young white girl who was deeply interested
in a novel which proved to be “The Testing
Fire.” The following conversation ensued:
Reviewer—“May I ask you a question?”
Young White Girl—“Of course.”
Reviewer—“Did you get that book in a
public library, or did you buy it?” (This
to find out how the book was selling.)
Young White Girl—“One of the girls in
the store lent it to me. All the girls are
reading it.”
Reviewer (tentatively)—“Do you like it?”
Young White Girl—“Oh! I think it's
grand!” (Hesitating a second.) “I think
things would be a great deal better if every-
body should read it.”
Suppose all “the girls in the store” hold
the same view. Great things have their rise
in small beginnings.
The book is for sale in the book depart-
ment of The Crisis.
m
The Curse of Race Prejudice. James F.
Morton. Published by the author at 244
West 143d St., New York.
This pamphlet is the last word on the
baselessness and silliness of race prejudice.
The author does not deal simply with the
discriminations made against colored people,
but with the injustices which all peoples
under the ban have to endure in this enlight-
ened age. It is surprising to find how many
of these peoples there are. It would be
encouraging, if the results were not often
so tragic, to realize that causes other than
color are responsible for the unpleasant
attitude of the so-called superior race.
Sometimes it is race and sometimes it is
religion and sometimes it is caste. The
queer thing is that what arouses prejudice
in one community produces no effect what-
ever in another. Mr. Morton’s keen mind
and trenchant tongue do not fail to make
the most of the absurdities of this condition.
Ridicule that is based on fact constitutes a
very’ effective weapon.
The Lower Animal. Norman Duncan. Har-
per's Magazine, April, 1912.
Whoever reads this story, be he white or
black, must wince, though for widely different
reasons. One shrinks from the roles of both
master and man. To be a pitiful, abject,
grovelling creature, or to be the force that
transmutes human beings into this state—
which is worse ? There’s a problem!
The Negro in Cleveland, Ohio. Frank U.
Quillin in the Independent for March 7,
1912.
Mr. Quillin’s little study is decidedly
encouraging, even though a trifle patronizing.
He shows that black and white Americans
can live side by side in peace and comfort,
and mutual self-respect. This article is
one of a forthcoming series of articles on
the condition of Negroes in Northern-cities.
It is pleasant to note that the Independent
in this same number voices its protest
against the discrimination of the membership
committee of the American Bar Association.
42
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
The IVleeting Place of Business and Proficiency
HELP WANTED
AGENTS WANTED
WANTED—First-class stenographer with reference.
Address C. B. Bailey, Box 371, Charlotte, N. C.
’Phone: Harlem, 6370
Middlesex Employment Agency
Offers you the benefit of its experience, gained by
years of actual conduct of business and the prestige
that comes from a largo clientele of satisfied
patrons.
Our ri<:id investigation of references keeps our
standard high. Mail orders solicited.
2229 Pifth Avenue, near 136th Street,
New York.
RKT.TA~RT.~R TTT.T.P at all times for the most dis-
criminating employers.
Out-of-town correspondence invited.
References thoroughly investigated.
Address:
MISS I. E. MOORMAN
463 Lenox Avenue	New York
MUTUAL TEACHERS’
AGENCY
Recommends teachers for schools; secures
employment for teachers. Blanks and
information furnished free on application.
1335 T Street, N. W. Washington, D. C.
PATENTS
$25.00 PER WEEK
may be made in commissions by parties handling
‘‘History of Negro Soldiers in Sponish-Amoric&n
War” combined with “History of the Negro Race.
400 pages, 50 illustrations. Price $1.25 net.
Address:
E. A. JOHNSON
154 Nassau Street	N°w York
AGENTS—$60 IN 6 DAYS
ThU La the report of Ur. Edw.
Carney, one of our As cots.
You can do aa well sc 111 ax our
Daisy Safety Razor. Sample
by mall 23 cents. Per dozen
$2.00—12 New Sharp Keen
Blades 35 cents. All post-
paid. Guaranteed. Money back
If not as represented. Terri-
tory Rolns fast. Start at once. Other money makers as welL
Particulars free.
BUSSING-WHEATON CO.. Inc.. Dept C
23 Park Row	New York
WANTED—Men and women to sell our hair goods
and complexion creams. Olive Oil Pomade for the
hair is a whirlwind seller; big sales assured; ex-
clusive territory; few dollars to start; samples,
50 cents; terms for 2-cent stamp. Write to-day.
The SUMMERSETT-STARK COMPANY
P. O. Box 343	Montclair, N. J., U. S. A
fSEjJgiES BATH TLB
.	r»i. iihu nn nlnmblne. rooniree little water.
Costs little, no plumbing, require* little ’
. Weight 15 pounds, and folds into small ro.i.
Full length balhl, far better than tin tub*.	»»
uv Write for rpaciaki agents offer anil daaertMleu.
, -_ij5j Adamj bL.Toledn. 0. JJfra. Turkish Bath tablnet*.
L.	H. LATIMER
MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEER
and
SOLICITOR OF PATENTS
55 John Street	Now York
Inventions Perfected, Models and Experi-
mental Machines Designed and Constructed.
Technical Translations.
Telephone 343 John	Room 604
MUSIC
HELEN ELISE SMITH
CONCERT PIANIST
Post-Graduate of the Institute of Musical Art
Pupil of Sigismund Stojowsky
Teacher of Piano, Theory, Ear-training, etc.
224 EAST 86TH STREET, NEW YORK CITY
___________INSURANCE_______________
Telephone 1393 Worth
E.	O. BUSSING
Fire, Life, Plate Glass and Casualty
Insurance
320 BROADWAY	New York City
Suite 723
AGENTS WANTED for the most rapid-selling Negro
sheet pictures on earth; every man and woman
will buy on sight—no talking—the pictures sell
themselves. Write to-day for free sample and
circulars.
CRESCENT NOVELTY CO.
423 E. KING ST. BEDFORD CITY, VA.
AGENTS make big money selling our Negro pic-
tures, size 16 x 20. “Jesus Died for Both,"
“Clinging to the Cross," “Protecting Angel,"
“Booker T. Washington," “Heavenward," "A
Mother’s Joy,” “Inspiration,” "Mama, I Love
You," "Jack Johnson." Catalog free. Peoples
Portrait Co., 710 W. Madison St., Dept. C,
Chicago, 111.
The Power of Womanhood
By Joseph Wellington
PRICE 20 CENTS
Sold by
THE STANDARD NEWS COMPANY
131 West 53d Street, New York
AGENTS WANTED EVERYWHERE
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
43
COPYING
Have your sermons, addresses, etc., typewritten.
50 cents for first copy, 25 cents for each additional
copy. Essays, etc., criticised and corrected. Mail
orders given prompt atention. Address:
MISS C. E. BRICE
1001 School Street	Darby, Pa.
REGALIA
A RACE ENTERPRISE
Manufacturing Badges, Banners and Sup-
plies for all Fraternal and Church Societies.
Catalogue upon request.
CENTRAL REGALIA CO.
Jos. L. Jones, Pres.
N.	E. Cor. 8th and Plum Streets
Cincinnati, Ohio
_____ REAL ESTATE
Valuable Texas Lands
For Sale
Large tracts of farm land in the best localities
of the State for sale at very dattering prices.
Small tracts of good lands suitable for farming,
truck, fruits and any domestic product. We have
for sale a number of large farms already in cultiva-
tion, good houses ana barns, wells, and nice pasture
lands, which can be obtained at reasonable rates.
City property a specialty. Business* lots in the best
part of the city, improved and unimproved. Large
lots suitable for factory property with switch
facilities.
No investment can be more valuable than an in-
vestment in Texas real estate. Lands are becoming
so valuable that they are doubling themselves in
value in less than a year’s time. For any invest-
ment in Texas property, write T. B. Madison Real
Estate Company. 2115 Elm Street, Dallas, Texas.
To Colored People
'C'OR SALE—We have houses from $1,000 to
$30,000. Our city is the capital of Ohio and
a great manufacturing center—plenty of work, a
good place to locate for business. Can sell you a
house for $50, $100 to $500 down, balance like
rent. For investment and speculating houses or
business places, $1,000 to $5,000 down, balance on
long time payment. Farm land prices from $1,000
to $10,000 up. Any of these are in good locations.
Write for further information.
THIS IS A COLORED ENTERPRISE.
EDWARD A. SHANKLIN
Real Estate
1218t^ ML Vernon Ave.	Columbus. Ohio
Telephone 4214 Greeley
BRANIC’S EXPRESS
PACKING AND SHIPPING
ANDREW J. BRANIC
Formerly Manager Virginia Transfer Company
459 SEVENTH AVENUE	New York City
Orders bv mail or ’phone receive promnt attention
TRUNKS STORED 25c. PER MONTH
Official Expressman for the C. V. B. A.
J. DOUGLAS WETMORE
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
5 Beekman Street (Temple Court)
New York City
Tel. 6222 Cortlandt	Cable Address. Judowet
FREDERICK L. McGHEE
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Union Block, Fourth and Cedar Streets
St. Paul, Minn.
General Practice	Notary Public
WILLIAM R. MORRIS
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
1020 Metropolitan Life Building
Minneapolis, Minn.
Real Estate and Probate Matters a Specialty
ROBERT B. BARCUS
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Notary Public
Office: Room 502, Eberlv Block.	Columbus, O.
B.	S. SMITH
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Offices: Suite 610, Sykes Block.
Minneapolis, Minn.
GEORGE W. MITCHELL
Attorney-at-Law
90S Walnut Street
___________ Philadelphia. Pa.
Tel. 2026 Fort Hill	Cable Address. Epben
EDGAR P. BENJAMIN
Attorney and Counsellor-at-Law
34 SCHOOL STREET	Boston. Mass.
$65.00
A value unequaled. Sold on
$1.00 Profit Margin. Write
for prices and other styles.
Send for catalog.
C. R. Patterson Sf Sons
GREENFIELD, OHIO
Largest Ifegro carriage concern in the United States
Mention The Crisis.
44
THE CRISIS
ADVERTISER
WE START YOU FREE
We fzzzJiih joa mzzh crsry-
-y izji. 'oa jcnh.4 gcaaai
c. jwur	y.'u r^-
irun Sl^SOO t» SJ^XX) a
/«**■ t* r*»-
PAMTS 52S
SUITS *95
We Prepay Lrprca
*5»*I0 A DAY
Twelve Beautiful Post Cards for 10 Cents
Co:r.i~
end 10
CRESCENT NOVELTY CO.,
423 E. King Street	Bedford City, Va.
Underwood
Standard Typewriter
The original front stroke visible writing
typewriter.
A mechanical masterpiece and universal
favorite.
Underwood sales exceed those of any
other machine.
"The Machine You Will
Eventually Buy"
Underwood Typewriter Co.
Underwood Building	New York
Ag ents—Big Money
2>r .ling our s>Ttn?:ece
combination ki'.cun
ciide up of articles ab-
solutely needed La every
uousehoid. They sell on
sight. Mr. Jarris sold
±ivj sets in one d\j.
Send SI for sample-
Sen: prepaid to any ad-
dress in United States
or Canada. Also our
:mproTed 3 1 : d e x e 11
Caiters for chairs. xbieh
.zn. Set of four sen
BUSSING-WHEATON CO.
23 PARK ROW DEPT. A NEW YORK
Afro-American
Correspondence
School
Offers o ;-)! ?r(rr.i‘. Pr-paritory Course. con-
Oramruar. Or \ rrsprj. History. Povaio.^rv.
Read; nr.	Per.-uanihip. Draxing.
Civ:; Ov^rum-nt -r.-l 7h-,ry ar.d A*: of
T-i-i-.ir.ir Just the thing to prepare you for
a teacher’5 examination. Adcr-ssa
Afro-Amen can Correspondence School
2608 St. Am Street	Netr Orleans, La.
PERSONAL CARDS
'Ter. Years with Dr. D C. White
Telephone 71 Momingside
DR. JAMES A. BANKS
DENTIST
204 WEST 1334 STREET, NETT YORK
Porcelain, Croxn and Bridge Work a Specialty
Pure Nitrous-Oxide Gas Administered
Telephone CoItmV.s 3&3o *	Open All Night
EODNEY DADE & BEOS.
Undertakers and Embalmers
Notary Public
Funeral Parlor and Chapel Free.
Licensed Lady Etuioalmer	Prompt Service
266 West 03d Street	Nex York, N. /•
Between Broadway and 6:h Avenue
THE SOUTHERN RESTAURANT
2229 Fifth Avenue
Bet 135th and 136th Streets
Beal Home Cooking; Meals Served at All Hoars.
REASONABLE rates excellent service
Home-Made Bolls Served Hot
Mention The C*:sis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
45
A PAGE OF ADVERTISEMENTS FOR WOMEN
KELSEY’S
Human Hair Goods and
Hair Preparations
Have stood the test for years. All
the latest styles in Braids. Transfor-
mations, Puns. Toupees, Wigs, etc.,
carefully matched to a sample of your
hair, ar.d beautifully made. Only the
best hair used in manufacturing.
KELSEY’S Hair Grower and Dress-
ing. made of the purest Hair ar.d
Scalp foods, relieves the Scalp of all
of the many diseases for which it is
subject, causing the Hair to become
soft and healthy, and POSITIVELY
prevents its falling cut.
Puffs, Braids and Transformations,
$1 up.
Hair Grower and Dressing, Si.
Send sample of hair for price quota-
tion.
S.	A- & A- C. KELSEY
328 Lenox Avenue	New York City
Sunlight at Night
fj.r zi* ir.Trrte.1	lire-:.*. 3v?-ci='lle-
x_i it of sim!	while.
■ariU: white crystal ill be. I urns 3'-i curie
.-_i >rr hyur. Perfect combustion,
ter*.* smokes if properly :esul*:«L
Ali lur Sun-Ray Kerosene Mantle Bum*
‘r;	1 '.-car.--i‘e-&e*er lijht. One quar. ;*
kerosene lusts 15 hours. Money tack If
' ' .s represented Particulars free.
Sirrclex Gaslight Co.. DepL C. New York
Te.epu •.•ne 22S8 Harlem
CARPET CLEANING
Odessa Millinery
41 W. 135th Street	New York
Started as the first; still leading
in all advanced Parisian Millinery.
Telephone 624 Harlem
BEAUTIFUL ART EXHIBIT
Miss Cora Van Schoick is conducting a sale and
exhibit of unusual interest at the WHITE BOSE
MISSION, 217 East 86th Street. New York.
There is on sale hand-painted china and pillow
tops, hand-made opera bags. pin cushions 3nd
novelties. These hand creations are suggestive for
gifts and interior decorations.
Cleaners and Renovators
For Particular People
New York Careful Cleaning Bureau
12 West 135th Street
We make a- specialty of cleaning and renovating
carpets. rugs. por-.eres and upholstered furniture;
we aiio vacuum clean in the home. We are not
the largest carpet cleaner in the warld, but abso-
lutely -.he most careful :n every detail.
SHAMPOOING CAEPETS AND BUGS OUB
SPECIALTY
SOMETHING NEW
Our buffet lamp, all brass, burns
kerosene. Suitable for all social func-
tions. Repousee. brass shade. Linen
cuirass lining with silk fringe in six
colors: makes a beautiful gift. Use-
ful as night lamp. Stands 11 inches
high and is weighted at bottom so
as to st3nd. A very nne table decora-
tion. By mail, postpaid, 60 cents
each. Per dozen. $6.
GASLIGHT COMPANY
NEW YORK
S. A. KELSEY, Pres. DR. WM. J. CARTER, Chiropodist. MME. A. C. KELSEY. Gea'l Instr.
The Kelsey School of Beauty Culture and Hair Dressing
328 Lenox Avenue, New York City
Manicuring, Shampooing, Hair Dressing, Beauty Culture. Hair Making and Chir-
opody scientifically taught. Day and night sessions. Instructions given to pupils in
their own homes if desired. Diplomas awarded. Send for booklet-directorv of recently
graduated students.
Mention The Crisis
46
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
GOOD COMMISSION PAID TO
ORGANIZERS. JOIN NOW!
HOME OFFICE:
no'A Colfax Ave., South Bend, Ind.
Too, Too I Too, Too I Too, Too
SOMETHING NEW
The Afro-American
Order of Orioles
Witt a Graduated Scale of Endowment
For particulars write G. W. BLAND, H. S. P.
Marshalls ijotrl
COMFORT—Large, airy rooms, offering genuine home comforts plus the con-
veniences and privileges of a modern hotel.
SERVICE—In the hotel and dining room the “Marshall’’ service is an exceptional
feature, which assures comfort and pleasure for our patrons.
Restaurant open all night.	Cuisine to satisfy the most discriminating.
VOCAL AND INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC EVERY EVENING
Breakfast, 7:30 to 12:30, 30c. Luncheon, 12:30 to 3, 30c. Dinner, 6 to 8, 35c.
Special Course Dinner Every Sunday and Holidays. 50c.
Telephones 4693-4694 Columbus	J. L. MARSHALL, Proprietor
Five thousand dol-
lars endows a free
bed.
Andrew F. Steven*
Prefidcnt
Nathan F. Moaaell.
M. D.
Medical Director and
Superintendent.
Frederick Douglass Memorial Hospital and Training School, Philadelphia, Pa.
Mention Tiie Crisis.
A limited number of
free beds maintained
for the worthy poor.
Other ward patients
maintained at $7.00
per week.
Private rooms can
bo secured from
$12.00 to $30.00 per
week.
The training school
for nurses maintains
a two years’ course.
A high school cer-
tificate, or an edu-
cation sufficient to
be considered an
equivalent, necessary
for admission.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
47
cTk&
National Religious Training
School and Chautauqua
extends a cordial greeting to the ministers of all denominations
to be the guests of the School for one week, beginning July
6, 1912, for the purpose of discussing the following and
kindred questions:
What is the moral condition of the people in your community?
Is crime on the increase? If not, what was the cause of its
reduction?
What is the sanitary condition? What effort, if any, has
been made to improve the sanitary condition?
Is the death rate increasing?
To what extent do you co-operate with the Civic Improvement
Leagues?
Has settlement work been conducted to any extent in your
community, and with what results?
What has been the effect of Temperance Organizations, and
have you co-operated with them?
To what extent has the work of the Y. M. C. A. and
Y. W. C. A. been effective in your community? Do
you approve them?
What is the general fitness of the city and country school
teacher?
What has been the attitude of the day-school teacher toward
the Church and Sunday School?
What is the real religious condition of your people? Revivals,
how conducted?
All ministers who intend attending this Conference should
make it known at an early date, addressing the President, so
that reservation can be made for them.
The Summer School and Chautauqua of the National
Religious Training School will open July 3, 1912, and
continue for six weeks. The most complete and most up-to-
date Summer School for the Colored Race in the United
States. For particulars and terms address
President JAMES E. SHEPARD
DURHAM. N. C.
Mention The Crisis.
48
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
Publishers’ Chat with Readers
NEW DRESS
We trust our readers will like our new dress, with its larger type and improved
arrangements. Naturally, we feel a trifle unfamiliar to ourselves, but we are sure
we shall like ourselves better in the end.
OFFICES—The new offices are busy with painter and carpenter, and we
have solemn promises for the first of May. Remember, 26 Vesey Street.
THE JUNE CRISIS—The June CRISIS will be devoted primarily to the
Fourth Annual Conference of our Association at Chicago, with articles by Oswald
Garrison Villard, Abdul Baha, I. W. Rubinow, late of the Russian Civil Service,
and Jane Addams.
BOOKS, ETC.—Do not forget our book and mail-order departments.
We can buy for you any book for sale on any subject at a price as low as
anyone and often lower, also anything else buyable.
ADVERTISING—“Why do you not run the advertisements of the
large advertisers of safety razors, talking machines, soaps and the like?” This
we are often asked. We answer frankly—these advertisers require two things:
A large circulation and honest methods. The first requisite we are getting slowly
but surely. We expect a circulation of 50,000 before next Christmas.
The second requisite we already possess. No dishonest advertisement shall
find its way into our columns if we know it. Sometimes, indeed, we unwittingly
start to refuse our friends. An investment corporation in Mississippi sent us a new
proposition at which we looked askance. We were about to ask references when
bank references of satisfactory sort came to hand. The advertisement went in.
When we can add a hundred thousand of circulation to an honest policy, we
expect the big advertisers to call us up.
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
49
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION for the
ADVANCEMENT of COLORED PEOPLE
OFFICES: Suite 311, 20 Vesey Street, New York. Incorporated May 25, 1911
OFFICERS
National President—Mr. Moorfield Storey, Boston,
Mass.
Vice-Presidents—
Rev. John Haynes Holmes, New York.
Mr. John E. Milholland, New York.
Bishop Alexander Walters. New York.
Rev. Garnet R. Waller, Baltimore, Md.
Chairman of the Executive Committee—
Mr. Oswald Garrison Villard, New York.
Treasurer—Mr. Walter E. Sachs, New York.
Director of Publicity and Research—
Dr. W. E. B. Du Bois, New York.
Secretary—Miss Mary W. Ovington, Brooklyn,
N. Y.
Assistant Secretary—Miss Martha Gruening,
New York.
This year we shall attack segregation laws, investigate lynching,
defend the Negro in his civil rights, protest unceasingly against
race discrimination.
We want 2,000 members January 1, 1913. Watch the clock!
I hereby accept membership in the NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOE THE ADVANCE-
MENT OF COLORED PEOPLE.
Please find enclosed__________dollars and enter my name as a member in
Class __________paying $...........a year, and send me THE CRISIS.
Name
Address_________________________
Class 1. Life Members, paying $500.
Class 2. Donors, paying $100 per year.
Class 3. Sustaining Members, paying $25
per year.
Class 4. Contributing Members, paying
$10, $5 or $2 per year.
Class 5. Associate Members, paying $1
per year.
All members in gond standing have the privilege of attending and voting at the
Annual Conference of the Association.
Members paying $5 or more will receive THE CRISIS on signifying their wish
that $1 of their dues be devoted to that purpose.
PLEASE MAKE CHECKS PAYABLE TO NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT
OF COLORED PEOPLE, 20 VESEY STREET, NEW YORK CITY.
Mention The Crisis.
50
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
YOUR LOCAL PRINTER
may be able to do your ordinary printing, but your business and
personal stationery, wedding invitations, calling cards, pamphlets, etc.,
require that particular attention which our experience and facilities
afford you.
As first-class printers in New York City, we are subject to the
most exacting demands, since new designs and type formations must be
constantly originated to satisfy a large clientele of most discnminating
patrons.
We refer you to Mr. Conde Nast, of Vogue; rve print The CRISIS.
Write for samples and special quotations.
ROBERT N. WOOD, Printing and Engraving
202 EAST 99th STREET	-	NEW YORK
’Phone 6667 Lenox
Make Your Spare Moments
30 Profitable
The continued growth of The CRISIS necessitates the extension of
our field force, and we need representatives in all cities to establish
sub-agencies and look after renewals.
If you can spare a few hours each month to look after our interests
in your city, we can make you a proposition that will interest you. The
work is dignified as well as profitable.
ADDRESS BUSINESS MANAGER
THE CRISIS, 26 Vesey Street, NEW YORK
Mention The Crisis.
“HALF A MAN”
The Status of the Negro in New York
By
MARY WHITE OVINGTON
With a foreword by Dr. Franz Boas of Columbia University
Chapter I. How the colored people won their civil and political rights.
Chapters II. and III. The Negro tenement and the life of the poor.
Chapters IV. and V. How the colored man earns his living, with a full descrip-
tion of the professions; the ministry, the stage.
Chapter VI. The colored woman, her discouragements and successes.
Chapter VII. A vivid description of the life of the well-to-do Negroes.
Chapter VIII. The Negro in politics in New York.
Chapter IX. The author's personal views on the race question.
Price $1.00: by mail, $1.12.
LONGMANS, GREEN & CO., Publishers, NEW YORK
This book is for sale in the Book Department of The Crisis, 26 Vesey St., N. Y.
7Ae TESTING FIRE
By ALEXANDER CORKEY
Author of “The Victory of Allan Rutledge”	s
Is the Sanest Story Ever Written on the Race Problem
It is the first story ever written on the race
question, by a white man, that is not antagonistic
to the colored race,
EVERY FREEDMAN SHOULD READ IT
Through its pages runs a sweet romance, but
it is more than a love story. It is a novel of
uplift, accomplishment and promise.
No One Interested in the Race Question Should Miss It
Price $1.25 Net; Postage 10 Cents Extra
<7Ae H. K. FLY COMPANY, Publishers
NEW YORK CITY
This book is for sale in the Book Department of THE CRISIS,
26 Vesey Street, New York
Mention The Crisis.
This magnificent hotel, replete witli every modern improvement, claims distinction for its
location; direct Southern exposure .Superlative in construction, appointments, service
and refined patronage. Endorsed by leading representative citizens.
Concerts daily by the Abyssinia orchestra. Garage, bathhouses, tenuis, etc., on premises.
Special attention given to ladies and children. Literature and information mailed upon
request.
E. W. DALE, Cape May, N. J., Owner and Proprietor
Invest
I Bayou
Many fortunes have been made in Mound Bayou during its twenty-year
growth. Not only these who had plenty of money to invest, but also the small
investor who had staked his savings on his confidence in Mound Bayou's future.
It is therefore true that the city of Mound Bayou, where the scope of Negro
enterprise is unlimited, offers the investor reasonably sure returns on his money.
In financing and promoting the PEOPLE’S BRICK COMPANY of this
city, we believe we can offer investors an opportunity as certain of returns as
honest, experienced management can make it. For in manufacturing brick there
is no great expense and no danger of overcrowding the market with a perishable
stock, and we were fortunate in securing land suitable for making brick near the
Y.	M. & V. Railroad, which affords us an inexpensive outlet to the market.
The Stock Books of the PEOPLE’S BRICK COMPANY are now open for
a limited time, as we ne’e'd money for operating expenses.
We invite the most careful scrutiny into our experience and integrity.
Write to-day for testimonials and prospectus.
Security Investment and Enterprise Corporation
Reference : Bank of Mound Bayou
MOUND BAYOU, MISS.
Mention The Cktsis.
Volume Four
JUNE. 1912
Number Two

ONE DOLLAR A YEAR
TEN CENTS A COPY
VflPOne Thousand Wanted^!
A business that is in its infancy; which never can be overdone.
A business which will give you the immense advantage of
enormous advertising. It sells at sight.
SWTThe way to make money quickly is to sell an article that is
in universal demand; which pays a good profit, and can be sold
rapidly.
Every detail of the work through the successive stages of its manufacture is
done with a scientific accuracy which assures uniform excellence. My Automatic
Stropper is a “Long Lived” repairless device, and with ordinary care it will give
steady and faithful service indefinitely. L feel sure that an examination of this
modern invention will quickly demonstrate the correctness of its stropping method,
while its use at once reveals its superiority from a practical
and economical standpoint.
My Automatic Stropper is
undoubtedly the final solution
of the stropping question which
heretofore has been a very per-
plexing one. In the last fifteen
years, directly and indirectly, I
have marketed more than a
quarter million razor strops,
and every one of them has
been found to be all and more
than I ever represented it to be.	.	.	...
Break away from that poorly
paid, overworked class, and take
your rightful station among the
far-sighted, energetic people of
this world, who recognize their
right to a good income as the
result of the use of their brains,
rather than by the slavish toil of
their hands.
It is after all a simple propo-
sition based upon a law so old
and a principle so safe that none
can say it is not true. Since the
beginning of time men have
learned the greatest lessons by
adopting the fruits of the experi-
ence of other men. No great
undertaking has reached its full
fruition except it be built upon
the experience and knowledge
gained by pioneers who have
gone before and learned by experimenting the
way to accomplish any given end. The success
of my agents emphasizes the vital, golden and
glowing chance for a profitable business which
L am placing in your grasp right now. Write
me immediately for full particulars. I will ship
prepaid to any part of the United States or
Canada one of my Automatic Stroppers, accom-
panied with full instructions, for $1.25. This
offer is for those who wish to take up the agency
for this great shaving necessity. Remit by P. 0.
or express money order, addressed and made
payable to
HUNTER C. HAYNES
The Well-known Stropmaker
ilINTEl Co
P. O. Box 1083
Dept. A
HAYNES
NEW YORK CITY
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS
A RECORD OF THE DARKER RACES
Published by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, at
26 Vesey Street, New York City.
W. E. BURGHARDT DU BOIS. Editor	( OSWALD GARRISON VILLARD
Nl. D. MACLEAN. Managing Editor	Contributing ) CHARLES^EDWARD RUSSELL
FRANK M. TURNER. Circulation Manager	Editors	| \y 5 BRAITHWAITE
ALBON L. HOLSEY, Advertising Manager	( KELLY MILLER
Subscription: $1.00 a year; 50 cents for six months. Foreign subscriptions, 25 cents extra. Subscriptions
to begin with current issue or changes of address must reach us before the 15th of the previous month.
CONTENTS
PAGE
ALONG THE COLOR LINE................................ 59
MEN OF THE MONTH.................................... 67
OPINION ............................................ 70
EDITORIAL .......................................... 74
A GROUP OF DELEGATES TO THE CHICAGO CONFERENCE.
Picture ......................................... 78
THE FOURTH ANNUAL CONFERENCE........................ 80
THE OBJECTS OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE
ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE.
By Oswald Garrison Villard ...................... 81
THE NATION’S DUTY. By Judge Edward O. Brown......... 84
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN.	By	Abdul Baha............ 88
A WORD FROM MR. JULIUS ROSENWALD.................... 89
THE CRY OF THE MAN THAT’S DOWN. Poem.
By Norman D. Lippincott ......................... 89
THE BURDEN ........................................  90
WHAT TO READ ....................................... 92
HISTORIC DAYS IN JUNE .............................. 93
LETTER BOX .................................*....... 93
Agents wanted who can furnish references. Entered as second-class matter in the P. O. at X. Y. City
56
THE CRISIS
ADVERTISER
I LIFE AND WORKS
PAUL	Lida Keck. Wiggins
LAURENCE	and Introduction
DUNBAR’S	W.' Dea.T Howells
What the late Col. Robt. Ingersoll thought
of work:
220 Madison Ave.,
April, 1896, New York City.
My Dear Dr. Tobey:
At last I got the time to read the poems
of Dunbar. Some of them are really wonderful
—full of poetry and philosophy. I am
astonished at their depth and subtlety. Dun-
bar is.a thinker. ‘‘The Mystery” is a poem
worthy of the greatest. It is absolutely true
and proves that its author is a profound and
thoughtful man. “Ere Sleep Comes Down to
Soothe the Weary Eyes” is a wonderful poem;
the fifth verse is perfect.
I have only time to say Dunbar is a genius.
Now what can be done for him? I would like
to help.
Thanking you for the book, I remuin,
Yours always,
R. G. INGERSOLL.
Postpaid, S2, $2.75, $3.75.
J. G. GUILES
214A St. Antoine Street Montreal, Can.
Atlanta University
Is beautifully located in the City of Atlanta, Ga.
The courses of study include High School, Nor-
mal School and College, with manual training
and domestic science. Among the teachers are
graduates of \rale, Harvard, Dartmouth, Smith
and Wellesley. Forty-one years of successful
work have been completed. Students come from
all parts of the South. Graduates are almost
universally successful.
For further information address
President EDWARD T. WARE
ATLANTA, GA.
PUISLECATSOMS
A. M. E. Book Concern Philadelphia, Pa.
THE POEMS OF PHILLIS WHEATLEY.
Reprint of first edition 1773; a valuable book.
Price, $1.00.
THE NEGRO PROBLEM. An analysis: Y/Lat
It Is Not and What It Is; by R. R. Wright, Jr.
In pamphlet form, 15 cents
THE COLORED REGULARS. By T. G. Steward,
Chaplain U. S. A., retired. Price, $1.50.
EVOLUTION AND LIFE. By Algernon B. Jack-
son, Surgeon-in-chief Mercy Hospital. Price, 75
cents.
THE NEGRO IN PENNSYLVANIA. A Study in
Economic History. By R. R. Wright, Jr., Sometime
Research Follow in Sociology in the University of
Pennsylvania. Price, Paper, $2.00; Cloth, $2.50.
Address
A. M. E. BOOK CONCERN
631 Pine Street,	Philadelphia, Pa.
OF INTEREST TO
VOCAL STUDENTS
Tone Placing and
Voice Development
Practical method of singing for
daily practice, based upon artistic
principles, together with a care-
fully prepared number of exercises,
forming a comprehensive, progres-
sive and self-explained course in
voice building, which constitute the
technical side of the vocal art.
From “Musical Courier,” N. Y.: A very practical
little book is “Tone Placing and Voico Develop-
ment,” by Pedro T. Tinsley. As the preface says:
“It is for daily practice, based upon artistic princi-
ples. including a course in the art of breathing,
structure of the vocal apparatus, hearing the voice,
together with a carefully prepared number of vocal
exercises, forming a comprehensive, progressive and
self-explained course of voice building.” Written
by Pedro T. Tinsley, conductor of the Choral Club
of Chicago, and a man who has had many years’
experience in teaching voice. It contains some very
excellent material and vocal exercises, and should
bo in the hands of all vocal students. Price $1.
Address the publisher:
PEDRO T. TINSLEY
6448 Drexel Avenue CHICAGO, ILL.
or Clayton F. Summy, 220 Wabash Avenue, and
Lyon & Healy, Adams & Wabash, Chicago, 111.
I
Tlte
Qeesfi
©5 flue
Silver
Fleeee
A NOVEL
by
W. E. BLJRGHARDT
DU BOIS
Drawings by
H. S. DE LAY
Here is a story of the darker world
in the South and in Washington, D.
C.	It is dramatic in style and ab-
sorbing in interest and expresses the
feeling of colored people about them-
selves and their own problems; at the
same time it shows how both black
folk and white are caught in the
power of King Cotton.
AT ALL BOOKSTORES
PRICE $1.35 NET
A. C. McCLURG & CO.
New York Chicago San Francisco
Mention The Chisi9.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
57
FORWARD
MARCH YOUR SON OFF TO
Wilberforce University
The only school in the country for Negro
Youth which has a Military Department
equipped by the National Government, and
commanded by a detailed United States Army
Officer.
DEPARTMENTS
MILITARY	SCIENTIFIC
NORMAL	TECHNICAL
COMMERCIAL THEOLOGICAL
CLASSICAL	MUSICAL
PREPARATORY
Banking taught by the actual operations
in the Students’ Savings Bank. Twelve In-
dustries. 180 acres of beautiful campus, Ten
Buildings. Healthful surroundings, excep-
tional community. Maintained in part by the
State of Ohio which supplies facilities for the
thorough training of teachers.
Fall term begins September, 1912. "Write
for Catalog.
w. s. SCARBOROUGH, President
WM. A. JOINER. Superintendent, C. N. I.
Department.
Address all communications to
BOX 36	WILBERFORCE, OHIO
Atlanta University
Studies of the
Negro Problems
15 Monographs. Sold Separately.
Address:
A. G. DILL
Atlanta University, Atlanta, Ga.
Knoxville College
Beautiful Situation, Healthful Location
The Best Moral and Spiritual Environment
A Splendid Intellectual Atmosphere
Noted for Honest and Thorough Work
Oilers full courses in the following departments:
College. Normal, High School, Grammar School and
1 ndustrial.
Good water, steam heat, electric lights, good
drainage. Expenses very reasonable.
Opportunity for Self-help.
Fall Term Begins September, 1912.
For information address
President R. W. McGranahan
KNOXVILLE, TENN.
Uirginia Union University
RICHMOND, VA.
A College Department, of high standards and
modern curriculum.
A Theological Department, with all subjects
generally required in the best theological seminaries.
An Academy, with manual training, giving a
preparation for life or for college.
The positive moral and religious aim of the
school, its high standards of entrance and of class
work, its fine new buildings and well-equipped
laboratories and library prepare a faithful student
tor a life of wide usefulness.
GEORGE RICE HOVEY, President
Fisk University
NASHVILLE, TENN.
The largest colored college in the South.
A new department of sociology and social
service. A notable equipment in land and
buildings. Endorsed by the General Edu-
cation Board. For information address
GEORGE A. GATES, President
Mention Thb Ckisis.
5S
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
Our Heroes of Destiny
Honorablcs
Frederick Douglass
John M. Langston
Blanche K. Bruce
Paul Laurence Dunbar and
Booker T. Washington
A genuine photogravure,
printed on the finest grade of
Japan-vellum, 20 x 25 inches in
size, finished in Vandyke
brown, embracing the master
techniques of the engraver’s
and printer’s crafts.
A photogravure is printed
from a hand-tooled intaglio
plate, and consists of fine par-
ticles of ink standing above the
surface of the paper sufficiently
to cast minute shadows. The
depth of the ink and shadows
cast by it give a richness to a
photogravure impression which
is absolutely unattainable by
relief or planographic printing
as done by half-tone, photo-
gelatine, lithographic, or other
similar processes. A perfect
photogravure is the acme of the
engraver’s handicraft.
In publishing this valuable
edition of these five notable
men, I have gone to large ex-
pense in an endeavor to present
to iny race a rare etching of
the highest technique possible
to create. Price ONE DOLLAR.
Send in your order now to
C. M. BATTEY
ARTIST and PUBLISHER
322 Mott Ave., N. Y. City
This illustration is protected by
copyright. Any infringement will
be prosecuted.
"Our Heroes of Destiny"
n „	testimonials
lu“.r'Ala Lrvs:‘ WashinS,on’ Tuskegce Ins.i-
"I am really surprised, as well as gratified,
at the fine piece of work you have gotten
out. I had no idea you were going to get
up such an artistic production, that is so
attractive and so creditable.”
The New York Age, New York City, says:
“Every home and classroom should honor
one of these portraits, and into the mind of
every child it should be grafted with the lines
from the immortal poem of Longfellow: ‘Lives
of great men all remind us, we can make
our lives sublime.’ ”
Dr. York Russell, New York City, says:
“Your artistic production of ‘Our Heroes
of Destiny’ is unquestionably the master com-
position which has thus far chronicled the
advent in perpetuating faithful likenesses of
our hero-pioneers. The other nine series with
which you propose to follow this will establish
a precedent that will be of historic yalue^in
future years for yet unborn generations.”
Rev. Dr. Reverdy C. Ransom, New York
City, says:
“Your splendid production of ‘Our Heroes
of Destiny’ marks the era of perpetuating
characteristic and faithful likenesses of the
famous men and women of our own race, to
be handed down to younger generations, inspir-
ing them with ideals which if carefully nurtured
in their young lives will in their mature ages
prove excellent examples of pure and dignified
manhood and womanhood.
“No home where there is a child should be
without a copy of this excellent work, and no
parent that feels the love and loyalty of higher
race development should fail to teach the
children of their homes the meaning of the
lives of these five men.”
R. Douglass, Washington,
Major Charles
D. C., says:
“The likenesses and character blending in
the selected gravure portraits of the group
of ‘Honorables’ are better than any I have
yet seen; and to those of our race who
cherish the memories of these men they will
be eagerly sought ”
Mrs. B. K. Bruce, Washington, D. C.. says:
“I am indeed glad to say that ‘Our Heroes
of Destiny’ is the most creditable work of
art that has yet been produced of and for our
people. The life likeness of the entire group
is exceedingly good. It is a fitting memorial
worthy to be in every home.
“If we are to perpetuate the memories of
our own great men, it must be by keeping
their portraits ever before our youth, and
familiarizing them with the true meaning of
their lives.”
AGENTS WANTED
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS
Vol,
JUNE, 1912
Number Two
ALONG
COLOR
POLITICAL.
HERE are in the United States
A 26,009,151 males of voting age. Nine
and one-tenth per cent, of these are of Negro
descent.
In a speech before the City Club of
Chicago recently, the effect of Negro dis-
franchisement in the South upon the general
political situation was emphasized. Nearly
one-third of the members of the national
nominating conventions come from the
South, and are elected by undemocratic
methods. It was said that less than 150,000
voters in Georgia and Alabama can
nullify the million and a quarter voters in
a State like Illinois.
<3 Northern Negro voters are pressing for
elective offices. In St. Louis a colored man
is trying to get into the city council and
has some chance because of the factions
among whites. William R. Page, a colored
real estate man of Atlantic City, is in the
field for election as delegate to the National
Republican Convention.
The Atlanta Georgian says: “J. O.
Cochran, secretary of the county Demo-
cratic executive committee, declares to-day
that a meeting of the subcommittee will be
called at once to consider throwing out the
vote of a Negro which was cast at the second
ward voting place in the primary Wednes-
day. It is not known for whom the Negro
voted, hut Mr. Cochran says whether he is
a Democrat or not had nothing to do with
his right to cast a ballot, as a strictly white
primary was being held.”
<3 About 700 colored women ot San Fran-
cisco who are registered voters are forming
a Taft Republican League. They are “re-
membering Brownsville.”
<J At a meeting of 250 colored voters of
New Jersey it was declared that the confer-
ence went on record as opposed to the en-
dorsement of any candidate for the Presi-
dency, for United States Senator or Repre-
sentative in Congress “until they and each
of them pledge to the colored voters of the
country and the State representatives pledge
to the colored voters of this State a plank in
the national platform of his or their party
against lynching, disfranchisement or any
law encroaching or violating the sacred
rights of citizenship, supported by a mes-
sage from the President and executed by
an enactment of Congress giving the United
States Supreme Court power to enforce all
rights guaranteed by the said Federal Con-
stitution.”
Cl An anti-Roosevelt meeting has been held
by the colored citizens of Boston.
*3 W. C. Matthews, a colored lawyer, has
been sworn in as Special Assistant District
Attorney of Boston.
The Republican State Committee of Dela-
ware has one colored member-at-large. At
the recent convention a resolution to ap-
point four colored members was laid on the
table.
CJ Mrs. James Bennett, of Richmond. Kv.,
a Southern white woman, said before a
committee on woman’s suffrage of the
60
THE CRISIS
United States Senate: “Our Revolutionary
fathers wrote the first article of our Federal
Constitution in such a way that it conferred
upon black men and white and black women
a legal right to vote for members of the
United States House of Representatives
along with white men in New Jersey from
the time that State entered the Union, about
1779, until 1807, and in such a way that it
now confers upon black men and white and
black women a legal right to vote for mem-
bers of the United States House of Repre-
sentatives along with white men in the
States of Wyoming, Utah, Idaho, Colorado,
Washington and California, and I think
that if our Congressmen will now follow
this example of our Revolutionary fathers
by recommending the adoption of an amend-
ment of our Federal Constitution that will
confer upon black men and upon white and
black women a legal-right to vote for United
States Senators along with white men in
our State, they will elevate themselves in
the opinion of God and man.”
On the other hand, agitation for woman’s
suffrage in Arkansas has brought out the
race issue and strong opposition to advocat-
ing the vote for colored women has been
developed.
THE CHURCH.
nr HE twenty-fifth general conference of
■“* the African Methodist Episcopal
Church convened in Allen Chapel, Kansas
City, May 6.	700 delegates were present
and the Right Reverend Henry M. Turner,
senior bishop, presided. The Episcopal
address by Bishop C. S. Smith noted that
during the quadrennial four bishops and
two general officers had died. The address
recommended among other things that the
salaries of general officers be increased from
$1,350 to $1,500 a year; that the centennial
of the church be celebrated in 1916 and a
centennial fund instituted, and that four
new bishops be elected.
<1 The twenty-fourth general conference of
the African Zion Church convened in Char-
lotte, N. C., May 1. There were 500 dele-
gates in attendance. The Right Reverend J.
W. Hood, senior bishop, presided. Two new
bishops may be elected. During the past
four years more than a half million dollars
has been raised for the church.
*1 At the general conference of the Metho-
dist Episcopal Church, held in Minneapolis,
the question of the election of colored
bishops was precipitated very early in the
conference. The Reverend William J.
Lucas, a colored Mississippian, gained the
floor and said: “We need Episcopal support
in the far South. 1 doubt if any 325,000
white Methodists anywhere have as little
help from the Episcopal board. We are
told that we have our Episcopal residence
in New Orleans, and that we have to be
contented. We were, but we ain’t. We
make no threats, we make no demands. We
believe that the heart of our white brothers
of this church beats right for us. In four
years we have not had thirty days of Epis-
copal residence. If this keeps up we will
have to look our blue-eved white brothers in
the face and ask for fair play.” A special
commission on the subject was appointed.
<3 The American Bishops’ Home Mission
Society expended $132,000 on Negro educa-
tion in the last year and $6,000,000 in the
last fifty years.
<3 The colored Cumberland Presbyterian
Church has been admitted to the Council
of the Reformed Churches of America.
<3 The Plymouth Congregational Church of
Charleston, S. C., has a fourteen-room
parsonage and owns property valued at
$20,000 in a fine residence part of the city.
In a recent rally $1,185 was raised, and
(he church was cleared of all indebtedness.
Gas heaters have been put in and electric
lights are soon to be installed. Rev. A. L.
DeMond is the pastor.
SOCIAL UPLIFT.
HP HE last census figures show that Negro
illiteracy has decreased as follows:
1870—79.9%'---------------------------------
1880—70 %	-------------------------
1890—57.1%	--------------------
1900—44.4%---------------------
1910—30.5%	------------
<3 The present illiteracy of colored people
in the United States is shown by the
following figures:
NEGRO POPULATION 10 YEARS OF AGE AND
OYER, 1910.
Illiterate.
Per
Total Number cent.
Continental United States 7,318,502 2,228,087 80.4
South Atlantic ..... 2,986,936	969,432 32.5
East South Central . . 1,960,898 681,507 34.8
West South Central . . 1,460,705 483,022 88.1
The efforts of certain States to stop
Negro education are shown by the following
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
61
figures which give the per cent, of Negro
illiteracy:
Louisiana ..........................48.4%
Florida ............................40.1%
South Carolina .....................38.7%
Georgia ............................36.5%
Mississippi ........................35.6%
Texas, on the other hand, with its fairer
treatment of colored children shows 24.6%
of illiteracy, and the District of Columbia
13.5%.
The assessed valuation of property
returned for taxation by Negroes in
Georgia, in 1911, is $34,022,379, as com-
pared to $32,234,037 in 1910. The year’s
gain was $1,788,342.
The 1911 tax digests show that 119,871
Negroes paid poll taxes, and that 4,6S5
defaulted.
Negroes of that State own 1,639,919 acres
of improved land, with an assessment valua-
tion of $10,35S,653. Their city and town
property is taxed at $9,615,604; stocks and
bonds, $1,700; money and solvent debts,
$237,214; merchandise, $240,444; household
and kitchen furniture, $3,249,203; watches,
silver plate and jewelry, $41,970; horses,
mules, hogs, sheep, cattle, etc., $7,931,264;
plantations- and mechanical tools, $1,64S,-
S97; value of all other property, $377,479.
<3 Colored people of Louisiana and Missis-
sippi and Arkansas are suffering severely
from the flood. Of the 100,000 reported to
be homeless, 90,00 are colored.
<3 Governor Blease, the present governor of
South Carolina, who is of the same ilk as
Tillman. Vardaman, Davis and Hoke
Smith has been defeated for renomination
in the primary election.
<3 The colored people of Richmond, Va.,
have begun a campaign to raise $30,000 for
a hospital.
<3 Nashville is establishing a colored library
and the librarian of the Savannah colored
branch writes us that the city council has
provided $1,200 a year toward a Carnegie
library if the colored people will buy a
suitable site.
,<3 The first colored master electrician has
qualified in Nashville, Tenn.
The various movements for civic improve-
ments are noted this month. In Savannah,
Ga., and in Nashville, Tenn., the colored
people are asking for better sanitary con-
ditions. In New Orleans they want the
degrading social clubs closed up and. a law
against concubinage. In Chattanooga,
Tenn., a high death rate of the colored
people is leading them to ask for investiga-
tion.
<3 The movement for the protection of
colored girls in New York City is growing.
One of the speakers at a recent meeting said:
“Prejudice has so blinded the management
of our protective institutions as to make
it impossible for a colored girl to receive
any consideration. While I know many of
these institutions are private, sectarian, or
supported by various organizations, I fail to
see the difference between a white criminal
and a colored one. between a white delin-
quent girl and a colored one. Even the State
institutions seem inadequate to the emer-
gency where colored girls are concerned. I
think the time has come when the women
of our race should take the initiative in
the matter of erecting a home for such
girls. Many of these unfortunates are
worth saving, while the rest of them, who
are a millstone around the necks of self-
respecting citizens, should be kept by force
off our streets and thoroughfares.”
<3 Governor Harmon has appointed a colored
physician, Dr. Philip N. Johnson, as first
lieutenant of the medical corps in the Ohio
National Guard.
<3 President Taft, while in Savannah, visited
the Colored State Industrial College, of
which R. R. Wright is president. He also
met the mayor of the colored town of
Burroughs.
<3 A Japanese has been elected to member-
ship in the New York Cotton Exchange.
<3 A Southern Sociological Congress has
met in Nashville and carried out a pro-
gram which was announced as follows:
“The Southern Sociological Congress is a
challenge to the white race to prove its
superior civilization by a greater degree of
kindness and justice to an inferior race.
Is it not high time Southerners were
seriously studying the following subjects?”
“Needs of the Negro That the South Must
Meet,” Dr. J. H. Dillard, President Jeanes
Board and Secretary of Slater Board, New
Orleans, La.
“The Negro and Crime,” Judge W. H.
Thomas, Montgomery, Ala.
“The Negro and Public Health” Dr.
Seale Harris, Secretary Southern Medical
Association, Mobile, Ala.
62
THE
CRISIS
“The. Contagion That Knows No Color
Line,” Rev. John Little, Louisville, Ky.
“The Negro and the New South,” Dr. W.
D.	Weatherford, Student Secretary Inter-
national Committee of the Y. M. C. A.,
Nashville, Teun.
<3 Among 400 families who were represented
at a farmed conference at Fort Valley,
Ga., the following facts were gleaned: The
families averaged seven children each.
Fifteen per cent, were land owners averag-
ing 145 acres each. Fifty-two per cent,
were renters averaging ST1/* acres each,
for which they paid an average of
$252.50 per annum. Twenty-seven per cent,
were croppers—“working on halves.” Six
per cent, were wage hands. Of the 35,120
acres under cultivation by land owners,
renters and share croppers there were 18.-
6S0 acres in cotton; 10,200 acres in corn;
5,400 acres in peas; 440 acres in potatoes;
340 acres in oats; 200 acres in wheat.
<1 The seventh annual meet of the Inter-
scholastic Athletic Association took place
on the campus of Howard University on
Decoration Day.
*3 The late Benjamin Guggenheim, who
wen,t down with the “Titanic,” left a
bequest of $5,000 to the Colored Orphan
Asylum, New York City.
EDUCATION.
r I 1 HE following letter has been received
by the editor of The Crisis from the
students	of the University of South
Carolina:
Sir:	A marked copy of your paper,
The Crisis, was received by the librarian
of the University of South Carolina, in
which you paralleled an article written by
yourself on the Freedmen’s Bureau with an
article on the same subject by Mr. Colin
W. Covington, of this university. The
matter has been dealt with by the honor
committee of the student body and that
committee feels that you are due a state-
ment of its findings.
At the end of the essay as published in
the State, and as submitted for competi-
tion in the contest, Mr. Covington added a
bibliography in which credit was given to
the article in the Atlantic Monthly. This
fact, together with attendant circumstances
which were carefully looked into but need
not be set out here, the committee accepted
as evidence of the fact that there was no
flagrant effort to deceive. The committee
therefore did not deal with Mr. Covington
in a summary manner, although it did not.
hold him blameless. The medal was sur-
rendered by Mr. Covington upon the state-
ment of the committee that his work did not
warrant the award.
Yours truly,
Allan Johnstone, Jr.,
For the committee.
<3 A colored boy, Macolm C. Banks, of
Boston, was not only elected captain of his
military company in the public schools, but
also lieutenant-colonel of the 3d regiment
of the Boston School cadets.
*3 The Penn School of St. Helena’s Island,
S.	C., the oldest school for Negroes in the
South, has celebrated its fiftieth anniversary.
<3 Meharry Medical College has had its
annual commencement, and graduates 114
physicians, dentists, pharmacists and
trained nurses.
<3 The Howard University Medical School
is a regular member of the Association of
Medical Schools and is not classed in the
“Jim Crow” annex mentioned in The Crisis
some months ago.
<3 The forty-fourth anniversary of Hampton
Institute has been celebrated. There were
forty graduates of the academic department.
Cl The faculty of the new Tennessee A. and
I.	State Normal School for Colored Students
has been selected. Among those chosen are
three graduates of Atlanta University,
three graduates of Fisk, one graduate of
Hampton, one graduate of Howard and
two graduates of Northern Universities.
<3 Bedford, Va., has 1,400 white people and
1,100 colored people. The State has a uni-
form examination for all teachers, but in
Bedford the white high school, which runs
nine months in a year, trains white teachers
for this examination. There is no colored
high school, and consequently it is prac-
tically impossible for colored people to
qualify as first-grade teachers. The school
board is planning a $30,000 sclfbol building
for the -whites, while the cost of the colored
school building, including ground, was
$4,500.
<3 Dr. D. K. Pearsons has recently died. He
gave millions to higher education among
the whites, but nothing to colored colleges.
ALONG THE
COLOR LINE
63
MUSIC AND ART.
A REMARKABLE concert was given in
Carnegie Hall, New York, by the new
Music School Settlement. The critic of the
New York Press said: “If the orchestra of
the Clef Club, a large body of Negro
players, under the direction of James
Reese Europe, had not occupied the whole
stage of Carnegie Hall last night the con-
cert given there for the benefit and under
the auspices of the Music School Settle-
ment for Colored People would have drawn
an even larger audience than that which
greeted the great Hebrew cantor, Sirota, on
his first appearance here. The immense
auditorium was packed to its very limit
with folk both white and black, and out-
side on the sidewalk and in the lobby a mob
clamored in vain for admission.
“White folk, of whom there was a large
percentage in the crowd, enjoyed the
experience quite as much as the Negroes.
Among them were many musicians by pro-
fession. To hear that multitude of music
makers, manipulating banjos, mandolins,
guitars, violins, ’cellos, double basses and
pianos, with extraordinary rhythmical pre-
cision and contagious swing, to listen to the
voices of those spirited players mingling in
robust harmony with the big, resonant body
of instrumental sound, was indeed a novel
and original sensation. No wonder the
crowd burst into tumultuous applause after
the lilting Negro melody, ‘Swing, ’long
chillun, swing ’long de lane,’ written by Will
Marion Cook, leader of the Clef Club
Chorus.
<3 Mr. William E. Scott, a colored graduate
of the Indianapolis public schools, has had
some of his paintings accepted for the spring
exhibit of the Paris Salon. Scott studied in
the Chicago Art Studio for three years, and
is now in the studio of the great colored
artist. Tanner.
<3 In England the Musical Society of
Horsham, the Lavender Hill Choral Society
of Wadsworth and the Choral Union of
Birmingham have lately presented a number
of earlier works of S. Coleridge-Taylor,
including “The Blind Girl of Cast£l
Guille” and the “Bon-bon Suite.” The
audiences were large and enthusiastic. Mr.
Coleridge-Taylor’s new cantata, “A Tale of
Old Japan,” is being performed throughout
England with great success.
The London Musical Times says: “Mr.
Coleridge-Taylor’s ‘A Tale of Old Japan’
is a beautiful work which fully ^sustains
the composer’s reputation. Pie has attained
an even surer touch of constructive thought,
emotion and expression. The orchestral
part is inventive and resourceful. The
cantata given by the Festival Choral
Society at Birmingham, under the com-
poser’s direction, secured for Mr. Coleridge-
Taylor a veritable triumph.” The reviewers
add: “His part writing is always grateful
and in his orchestration he seems more than
ever to have embodied some fascinating
touches of local color which is always a
characteristic of his art. At the close of
the concert Mr. Coleridge-Taylor was the
recipient of an ovation.”
<2 Mr. Harry T. Burleigh, baritone and
composer, of New York, was the soloist at
the concert given April 24 by the Amphion
Club, of Melrose, Mass. An interesting
number on the program was Mr. Burleigh’s
setting of Kipling’s “Mother o’ Mine,”
which was sung by the club.
<3 On April 1 at Washington, D. C., at the
fourth of a series of artists’ recitals given
by the Washington Conservatory of Music,
was heard Miss Nellie Moore, pianist, of
New York, assisted by Mr. Felix Weir,
violinist. Miss Moore received her musical
education at the New York College of Music
and is a pupil of Leopold Wolfsohn.
<3 Miss Helen Eugenia Hagan, pianist, Miss
Jessie Estelle Muse, soprano, and Mr.
Roland W. Hayes, tenor, assisted by Mrs.
Gabrielle Lewis Pelham, accompanist, gave
much pleasure when they were heard in
concert on April 12 at Washington, D. C.
They presented a long and interesting pro-
gram, comprising numbers from Liszt.
Chopin, MacDowell, Burleigh, Mendelssohn
and Puccini. Miss Hagan and Miss Muse
are students of the Yale Conservatory of
Music at New Haven.
<3 On April 17, before a large and enthu-
siastic audience, a concert was given in
Steinert Hall, Boston. Mass., by Mr. Roland
W. Hayes, the admired young tenor. Mr.
Wm. H. Richardson, baritone, Mr. Clarence
Cameron White, violinist, and Mr. Charles
J. Harris, pianist. Mr. Hayes, a former
member of the Fisk University Quartet,
came to Boston a year ago, when his
remarkably fine tenor voice won for him
the opportunity for further study under one
of Boston’s most noted vocalists.
64
THE CRISIS
Mr. Richardson is a well-known church
and concert singer of Boston and has had
the advantage of study under the best
private teachers. He possesses a fine voice
of beautiful quality which he uses with
freedom and skill.
PERSONAL.
rT’r HE Carnegie Hero Fund Commission
has awarded Nathan Duncan a gold
medal and $2,000 for heroism. Duncan
worked for hours forty feet below the
surface of the earth to rescue a man who
had been buried alive by the caving in of a
well.
q Lockett, a Negro fireman on the Georgia
Midland Railway, rescued a child from
death the other day by diving from his
engine and throwing her off the track.
<1 Miss Laura Jones, a colored girl of
Mobile, with a torn skirt flagged an inbound
passenger train and prevented it from
running into a dangerous washout,
q Emanuel Jackson, a wealthy colored man
of Pittsburgh, is dead. He conducted a livery
and undertaking business,
q Jerry Buckner, the first colored police-
man of Parkersburg, W. Va., is dead,
q Walter F. Giles, former physical-culture
instructor of Fisk University and of the
public schools of Baltimore, is now in charge
of physical culture in the public schools of
St. Louis.
q The Reverend C. T. Walker is about to
build an institutional church for colored
people in Augusta, Ga.
THE GHETTO.
A MAJORITY of Southern cities achieve
separation of white and Negro pas-
sengers in street cars by assigning them to
different seats, or by the use of movable
screen partitions. Montgomery, Ala., stands
alone in unqualifiedly requiring separate
cars for whites and Negroes. North Caro-
lina forbids white and Negro passengers
occupying contiguous seats on the same
bench. Virginia prohibits their sitting side
by side unless all other seats are filled. In
a number of cities the white passengers must
enter and leave the car by a different plat-
form than that used by the Negroes. Prac-
tically without exception the white patrons
are given the front of the car and the
Negroes the rear.
It is generally found that conductors have
police power to eject or arrest wilfully dis-
obedient or refractory passengers, and in
some few cities policemen on the cars are
required to take cognizance of any viola-
tions of the law. Penalties upon the con-
ductors for failure to observe the laws
vary from $1 in Montgomery to $500 in
Jacksonville, or imprisonment from one to
ninety days.
q Efforts to bar colored residents are
reported in sections of Washington and in
St. Louis. From St. Louis it is reported
that the first Negro moved to Cook Avenue
lately, taking possession of 4004 Cook
Avenue. That night the house was bom-
barded with stones and several windows
were broken. When the police were sum-
moned they arrested Robert Watson, a
Negro, who was patrolling the street, on the
charge of carrying concealed weapons/ He
soon was released. The house at 4000 Cook
Avenue has also been bought by a colored
woman, Mrs. May Crawford, wife of a
Pullman porter, and 4008 Cook Avenue has
been bought by Mrs. Sadie Lyle, another
colored woman, whose husband is a barber
at Jefferson Avenue and Pine Street. These
have not yet moved in.
COURTS.
HP HE question of the right of the
-** colored Knights of Pythias to keep
their name has been argued before the
Supreme Court of the United States, Alton
B.	Parker of New York representing the
Negroes.
q The disfranchisement cases in Oklahoma,
where two election supervisors were con-
victed of conspiracy in preventing Negroes
from voting for a Congressman, came up in
the Court of Appeals in St. Louis, May
22d.
q John Mingo, a colored man who was
carrying a hatchet which he had been using
in his work, was pursued through the
streets of New York by a mob last fall.
He met a policeman and the policeman
deliberately shot him and charged him with
felonious assault. When the case came up
recently Mingo was acquitted, and the
Vigilance Committee of the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored
People is bringing charges against the
policeman.
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
65
<3 Lynn, the Arkansas farmer who killed
three Negroes recently, was tried and the
jury failed to agree upon a verdict. Lynn
asked to be admitted to bail, but this was
denied by the lower court. He is now
appealing to the Supreme Court of the
State.
•3 At Peoria, 111., a Greek who refused to
serve soda water to a colored man was fined
$25.
<3 At Birmingham, Ala., Charles Burden,
a colored man, was charged with assault
with intent to murder two years ago. The
jury found him guilty and sentenced him
to fifteen years in the penitentiary. His
case was taken to the Supreme Court, was
reversed on a technicality, and on the
second trial he was fined $1 and released.
<3 In St. Louis a colored man was con-
victed for stealing a purse last December and
was sentenced to five years in the peniten-
tiary. His story, however, made a strong
impression on the judge; his case was
investigated and finally the verdict of the
jury was set aside and he was dismissed.
<3 A woman lawyer charged in a New York
court that colored people are discriminated
against on the jury lists and demanded that
her colored client have his race represented
on the jury.
<3 At Macon, Ga., a colored man has filed
suit for damages against the local ice and
coal company. He charges that he was
threatened with illegal arrest and then
forced to pay $2 a week to the company
out of his wages. He paid $60 and then
sued the company.
<3 The judge of a municipal court at
Gary, Ind., has decided that Negroes can be
debarred from poolrooms.
CRIME.
A FTER an expenditure of $10,106.30
by the county of Chester, the persons
accused of lynching Zach. Walker on
August 13, 1911, have all been set free.
Six men were acquitted last fall. Then the
commonwealth sought a change of venue,
which *was denied. Another man was
recently acquitted and the State thereupon
asked for the acquittal of the other five
accused men. Judge Butler made a scath-
ing address from the bench in which he
deplored the condition of the public mind
in Chester County. He regarded the out-
come of the trial as a public calamity to
law and order in the State.	'
The following lynchings have taken place
since our last record:
At Shreveport, La., Tom Miles was
lynched for “sending an insulting note” to
a white girl. He had been tried by the court,
released and then killed by a mob. It is
rumored that a companion, S. McIntyre,
was also lynched, but his body has not been
found.
At Yellowpine, La., a colored boy of
19 was whipped for writing “several
letters to ladies in a suggestive manner."
He was ordered to leave town, but refused
and was lynched. Another report was that
the insults were sent over the telephone.
At Jackson, Ga., Henry Etheridge was
lynched for being active in securing recruits
for a colony to Africa.
At Greenville, Miss., an unknown Negro
was lynched in a cemetery for an alleged
attack upon a white woman. Two police-
men were shot during the melee.
At Columbus, Miss., George Edd, a field
hand, wounded a woman planter and her son
with a shotgun. He was lynched twenty-
four hours later.
At Monroe, La., trouble attributed “ta
the surliness and impudence of Negro flood
refugees” led to a lynching. A press report
continues: ‘‘Yesterday several Negroes were
playing a slot machine in a store at Delhi
when an officer stepped up and put a
penny in the machine. With an oath, a
Negro is alleged to have stepped up and
tried to put the officer out, declaring ‘I’se
playing dat machine/ After the white man
had given the Negro a good beating the
latter is said to have threatened violence to-
white people in Delhi. During the night a
crowd gathered, caught the Negro and'
lynched him.” Later a regiment of white
militia was sent to the spot.
<3 At Fort Smith, Ark., the grand juryr
who have been investigating the lynching of
Sanford Lewis, returned indictments against
twenty-three persons.
<3 Mobs are threatening lynchings in Val-
dosta, Ga.. and in Humbofdt. Tenn. In the
latter place, after a Negro had been nearly
killed, it was found that he was the wrong
man.
«J The colored people of Hempstead, Tex.,
have offered a reward of $500 for persons
assaulting a Negro family.
66
THE CRISIS
<3 Two young white men in Reidsville, Ga.,
are charged with killing a colored man, and
a white man at Tiftou, Ga., is held for the
murder of a colored man.
<5 A typical case is reported from Hot
Springs, Ark. George Brown, a colored
waiter, found a white business man in com-
pany with his young daughter. He was
prevented from killing the man by an officer.
He threatened, it is said, to kill the officer.
At any rale, the officer shot and killed him.
<3 Thirteen men are under indictment at
Walnut Ridge, Ark., for dynamiting Negro
homes and trying to drive out Negro
workingmen.
<3 Colored men have been shot by officers
in Richmond, Va., Thomasville, N. C.,
Rocky Mount, N. C., and Louisville, Ky.
<3! A fifteen-year-old colored boy has been
sentenced to five years in State’s prison for
stealing at Jacksonville, Fla.
<2 Maier Schwartz, the young white boy
who wilfully murdered an old Negro hack
driver in Natchez, Miss., last Decem-
ber, was proven guilty and sentenced to
serve the rest of his natural life in the
penitentiary by Judge Brown, in whose
court he was tried. The judge said the
verdict will show the law-abiding citizens of
Adams County that they can get protection
in the courts.
<3 All but two of the rioters who a year or
more ago killed a score of Negroes at
Palestine, Tex., now have their freedom.
It is hardly probable that these two will
ever be brought to trial. The only satis-
faction in the matter is that it has cost most
of these rich men a large part of their
fortunes to escape punishment.
FOREIGN.
Q IR WALTER EGERTON, who has
^ been governor of the amalgamated
territories of Northern and Southern Nigeria
longer than any of his predecessors, has
been retired. His successor, the new
governor-general, is Sir Frederick Lugard,
who was at one time high commissioner
of Northern Nigeria and was transferred
from Hong Kong, China, to his new post.
He and his estimable wife, who is the
author of a valuable work on Nigeria, are
well liked by native Africans.
<1 Lady Egerton is greatly interested in
Dr. Sapara’s Midwifery Training School,
at Lagos, and before leaving the colony for
England called a conference of women at
Government House for the purpose of dis-
cussing, in conjunction with a few Euro-
pean ladies, -ways and means of preventing
the great loss of life in childbirth and the
high rate of infant mortality. It is the
intention of the government to establish a
maternity home in Lagos, with a European
matron, who will also be available for
training natives as nurses and midwives.
*3 Education among the natives in South
Africa is hampered by interference of the
whites, according to the report of Bishop
J. Albert Johnson.
“The twelve million natives are completely
under the control of one million Europeans,”
the report stated. “Anything which tends
to development of these ignorant peoples
is looked on with suspicion by those in con-
trol. No institution is allowed to exist with-
out a European head. This handicaps
advancement of the people. Native educa-
tors are needed.”
THE BAPTIST SUNDAY-SCHOOL
CONGRESS.
ONE of the interesting meetings of the
year is the colored Baptist Sunday
School Congress. The first session of this
congress was held in Nashville, Tenn., in
1906 and brought together an enthusiastic
attendance from various States. In 1907 at
New Orleans there was a still larger at-
tendance, and in 1908 at Jacksonville, Fla.,
many of the Sunday-school experts of the
United States were present and spoke. The
next year the congress met at Atlanta and
last year at Meridian, Miss. This year the
congress will meet at Tuskegee, Ala., June
5 to 10. It is a sort of school of methods,
five days being given to actual Sunday-
school work. No motions are made and
no debates indulged in. At the Meridian
meeting of the congress the superintendent’s
department registered 400 members from
twenty-six States, and there were more than
900 Sunday schools enrolled. The organiza-
tion was founded by Dr. R. H. Boyd, who
is at the head of the publishing department
of the colored Baptists, and his son, Mr.
Henry A. Boyd, is secretary. Reduced fares
from all over the United States will be
made for this summer’s meeting, and a large
attendance is expected.
MEN OF THE
MONTH
7?l^VTTmFRM
MARY HOWARD JACKSON.
A BUST of the Rev. F. J. Grimke, now
being exhibited in the Veerhoff Art
Galleries at Washington, is the work of
MRS. MARY HOWARD JACKSON
Mrs. Mary Howard Jackson, wife of the
head of the department of mathematics in
the M Street High School. The bust has
been praised by Wasliington art critics as
“well constructed and skilfully modeled,”
and is another example of the talent the
artist has already shown in a dozen or more
pieces of sculpture.
Born in Philadelphia, Mrs. • Jackson
studied at Professor J. Liberty-Tadd’s art
school and later, having won a scholarship,
at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts.
There she worked under Chase, Gerafly and
Boyle; Professor Boyle especially was a
source of great inspiration as well as of
practical help. Mrs. Jackson thinks her
best work is perhaps represented by her
busts of the Rev. H. M. Joseph, Senator
Iloar and Dr. W. E. B. Du Bois. She is
now engaged on a study of Mr. W. H.
Lewis, which will probably be exhibited in
New York.
JAMES REESE EUROPE.
JAMES REESE EUROPE was born in
Mobile, Ala., February 22, 1SS1. He
descended from a musical family. Both his
paternal and maternal ancestors, as far back
MRS. JACKSON’S BUST OF THE REV
F. J. GRIMKE
THE CRISIS
most inspiring. The New York Tribune,
commenting upon them, said that “All in all
they are well worthy of the pen of John
Philip Sousa.”
One of Mr. Europe’s distinguishing
characteristics is his genius for organiza-
tion. lie is the founder and first president
of the famous Clef Club and the organizer
of the Clef Club Symphony Orchestra, “one
of the most remarkable orchestras in the
world,” as the Evening Post critic called it.
Fully to appreciate the worth of James
Reese Europe to the Negro musicians of
New York City, one would have to know
how the Negro entertainers in cafes, hotels,
at banquets, etc., were regarded before
the organization of the Clef Club, and how
they have been regarded since. Before, they
were prey to scheming head waiters and
booking agents, now they are performers
whose salaries and hours are fixed by
contract.
WILLIAM H. TYERS.
JAMES REESE EUROPE
as is ascertainable by the most diligent re-
search, were musicians.
When he was a child his parents migrated
from Mobile to Washington, i). C., where he
was placed under the tutelage of Enrico
Hurloi, assistant director of the United
States Marine Band, as a student of the
violin. At the age of 14 young
Europe entered a contest in the national
capital in music writing, and while he won
only the second prize the first prize was
awarded to his sister, Miss Mary Europe, of
whom Coleridge-Taylor said: “She is a
genius oP dazzling brilliancy.”
Mr. Europe devoted years of study to
the theory and instrumentation of music
with such well-known tutors as Hans Hanke,
of the Leipzig Conservatory of Music, Mel-
ville Charlton and Henry C. Burleigh. His
natural talent has been thoroughly trained.
Tt is as a musical director and composer
that Mr. Europe is best known in the
country. He toured the country as musical
director for the Cole & Johnson and
Williams & Walker companies, but recently
he has devoted his time exclusively to writ-
ing instrumental numbers. Chief among
his successes are his marches which are
XT/ILLTAM H. TYERS was born in
Petersburg, Va., in 1870, hut his
parents moved to New York City. While
a boy Tyers showed a remarkable genius
for composition, and at the age of 17
WILLIAM H. TYERS
MEN OF THE MONTH
69
liad composed quite a number of polkas,
waltzes and so forth. In 1800 he toured
Europe, as librarian in a musical company,
and while in Germany he studied instrumen-
tation under Gaspari. Ill-health compelled
him to return to America, and since then he
has devoted his entire time to composing,
writing and arranging music. He has held
positions as musical arranger in a number
of the leading music-pUblishing houses of
Now York, and is said to be the best-trained
musical arranger of his race. He has been
in popular demand for years by some of the
leading stars in many of the musical pro-
ductions, to arrange their music. “Trocha”
(a Cuban dance) was the first composi-
tion that made real fame for Tyers; it was
played by the leading bands and orchestras
of the country; since then he has written
quite a number of other characteristic dances
like the Dance Philippine, La Mariposa, La
Coqucta, Maori and Panama. Mr. Tyers
is assistant conductor of the Clef Club, and
the New York Evening Post said of his
latest composition as played at the recent
Carnogie Hall concert: “Were the name of
Strauss appended to the Tout a Vous waltz
by Tyers it would be one of the most popu-
lar waltzes in the world to-day.”
FIFTY YEARS OF SERVICE.
nr HE Rev. John Thomas Jenifer, who
*** was recently retired by the Baltimore
A.	M. E. Conference after fifty years of
service, is one of the most interesting fig-
ures in the Negro Church. He has combined
great spirituality with genuine executive
ability, and made a remarkable record
whorever he was sent. He was born a slave
in Maryland in 1835. In 1859 he escaped
and went to New Bedford, Mass., where he
worked to give himself an education. In
1862 the former slave, having a strong wish
to enter the ministry, applied for, and
received, license to preach. Before long he
was sent to California and made one of the
first class of Negro deacons consecrated by
a Negro bishop on the Pacific Coast. Com-
ing East again, he entered Wilberforce Uni-
versity. “In 1870,” says Mr. Jenifer, “J
was graduated from the first class of theo-
logical students (so far as I know) from a
Negro college who were handed diplomas
by a Negro president.”
Mr. Jenifer went South, then to New
England, then to Washington and Balti-
REV. JOHN THOMAS JENIFER
more. There is, indeed, hardly any part of
the country in which he has not worked. “I
have traveled about 250,000 miles,” he says,
“been in every State of the Union except
six, gone through Canada and Central
America, preached more than 6,000 sermons,
and gathered in, with many souls, about
$250,000 in property and cash. I am sorry
I could not do more.”
The colored people of Souih Africa have
sustained great loss in the death of D. J.
Lenders, vice-president of the African
Political Organization. Mr. Lenders had
taken an active part in every movement to
uplift the colored people.
He was one of the three colored delegates
who went over to England two years ago
to protest against the “Color Clause” in the
Act of Union. But, besides this enormous
sacrifice, he bad, by bis persistent, protests
against injustice, by his fearless advocacy
for full political and civil rights to all, and
by his unselfish and whole-hearted devotion
to our cause, placed the colored people under
a lasting obligation to him.
PRAISE FROM THE
CHICAGO PRESS.
Part of the phenomenal
success of the Chicago
Conference must be at-
tributed to the sympathy of the newspapers.
Nearly every daily published in the city
gave our association editorial commenda-
tion. We give a few words from our many
clippings.
The Tribune has a thoughtful editorial
on what it calls the chief of our national
problems. “Wakeful, inquiring, energetic
as we are with respect to all other pressing
questions in our national experiment, as to
this problem we of the North are indiffer-
ent. We do not realize that it is a grave
national problem. We like to dismiss it as
a sectional affair which we may safely and
wisely leave to a section to settle.
“This fallacy is serious. We tried to leave
the slavery question to the South. It would
not, it could not be. Neither can we shirk
a part in dealing with this present phase of
the same question.
“The first step toward participation in
the solution is acquaintance with conditions,
and it. is highly desirable that the associa-
tions concerned with efforts to study and
aid the Negro should meet occasionally in
the North for public discussion.”
The Record-Herald also takes the view
that what is most needed is a better knowl-
edge of the facts. It expressed gratification
at the forceful array of them presented at
the conference and at the great progress
the colored man was making in spite of
prejudice.
“To impress the great public with these
facts is to combat blind prejudice in the
most effective way possible. At the same
time there is plenty of work ahead for the
white friends of humanity, righteousness and
brotherhood. Lvnchings must be fought
and punished; the civil rights of the black
man must be vigorously enforced; the draw-
ing of the color line in educational insti-
tutions must be resisted.”
The Evening Post, like the Tribune, calls
the Negro problem the most serious facing
the American people and one to which the
country is singularly indifferent. “We have
watched the spread of disfranchisement, of
various types of discrimination measures
aud of even the complete breakdown of our
legal machinery where it touched the colored
man without appreciating the significance
for ourselves of what we saw. Catchwords
like ‘leave it to the South where it belongs’
have taken the place of any real thinking,
in fact have closed our minds to the need
of any real thinking.”
Then, referring to the National Associa-
tion, the Post points out that it is not a
“missionary enterprise” but is “concerned
with clearing the illegal and un-American
and oppressive obstacles from the path of
the race that is ttying to rise,” and con-
cludes by urging (he people of Chicago to
attend the meetings, “hear some of the best
minds in both races in the sincere and
earnest discussion of this problem.”
The Daily News thinks that only good can
come of “this educational movement which
seeks to correct the underlying conditions
of which lvnchings, race riots, Jim Crow
cars, and injurious discriminations of many
sorts are the outward and visible manifesta-
tions. “It ought to be plain,” the News
continues, “that the expressed antagonism
in a civilized country toward the colored
man is a denial of civilization and that as
long as this antagonism continues civiliza-
tion itself must suffer from its own blind-
ness.”
m
coatesville's
DISGRACE.
The final failure of
Chester County to con-
vict anybody for com-
plicity in the Coatesville lynching has been
the subject of much press comment. The
Allentown (Pa.) Neivs says significantly:
“This complete miscarriage of law and
order in a community that has been noted,
OPINION
71
as a whole, for the average of its intelli-
gence and public spirit, is not less remark-
able in the history of Pennsylvania than the
horrible event which Chester County justi-
fies, or at least condones; and there is a
deep meaning behind it in the relation to-
day of the white race and the black race to
each other in the United States.”
The New York Evening Post takes the
same view: “When the District Attorney
had finally wrung a few confessions from
some of the mob,” it says, “a handful out
of the hundreds, and had succeeded in get-
ting twelve men indicted, he could get no
jury to listen to his evidence. ‘There is a
deep-seated purpose on the part of the peo-
ple of Chester County not to convict a white
man for the murder of a Negro/ said
Deputy Attorney-General Cunningham in
his application, which was refused, for a
change of venue.”
The New York Evening Sun remarks that
“when public opinion in Pennsylvania is at
such an ebb, the whole country must be
shocked by the facts and apprehensive of
the consequences,” while the Tennessean
American, published in Nashville, deploring
the result, adds: “At the moment we can-
not recall a single instance where any man
accused of participating in a lynching has
been made to suffer legal penalty, save in
the case of some of those who murdered a
law and order detective in Ohio a year or
more ago.” This detective, it will be re-
membered, was white.
Where must the blame for the failure be
put? The Brooklyn Eagle thinks it is
divided. “If Governor Tener had proclaimed
martial law, directed the wholesale arrests
of suspected persons, removed the lukewarm
prosecutor, and used the power that lies
in his office, the disgrace would have been
impossible. But ihis does not ‘let out’ the
local authorities or the local jury. All are
responsible. The commonwealth as a whole
is responsible.” The Pittsburgh Dispatch
blames Coatesville only. “While we are
chagrined at this exhibition of savagery and
lawnessness within the borders of our com-
monwealth,” it observes, “it is so manifestly
out of keeping with' the spirit of Pennsyl-
vania that we can disown it.” The Gazette-
Times, of the same city, does not agree to
this. “If Chester could be left to itself,”
it says, “in the discredit. attaching to its
shame it would merit all the ignominy that
could be heaped upon it, but unfortunately
the whole State will suffer in repute for the
vicious influence exercised by perniciously
active leaders in a community from which
better things were expected.”
The Philadelphia Inquirer, going into the
psychology of the matter, suggests the mo-
tive that may have led to the acquittal.
“There will be a disposition to assume that
the jurors by the stand they took showed
themselves in sympathy with the accused and
condoned the crime they were charged with
having committed. This may to some ex-
tent be true, but it is not the whole truth.
It may be suspected that the jurors were
actuated by motives much more compli-
cated and less censurable than these. They
probably felt that, inasmuch as it was im-
practicable to punish all who were partici-
pants in the Walker lynching, it was not
fair or right to single out and punish the
few who had been brought before them, and
so they strained their consciences to
let them go.”
________We have received from
THE LESSON OP Ar ~	~
_ m Mr. George Foster Peo.-
THE “TITANIC. .	.	®	.	.	,
body an editorial
clipped from that excellent journal, the Chi-
cago Public, and with it the following letter:
“May I request your careful reading of
the enclosed editorial. ‘The Lesson of the
Titanic Disaster/ which seems to me to be
worth reprinting in every paper. I am
most earnestly desirous that your constitu-
ency shall have an opportunity to read it
and T beg to state my most earnest hope
that it may commend itself to you as worthy
of reprinting in full at as early a date as
convenient.”
We cannot reproduce quite all the edi-
torial which Mr. Peabody so justly com-
mends, but we are glad to give our readers
the greater part of it, for it is precisely to
arouse the imagination of the indifferent
that The Crisis exists. The Public says that
the outburst of indignation at a tragedy
that could have been averted is quite natural
and is useful in so far as it may prevent
the repetition of such a horror, but it thinks
the disaster cannot be laid altogether to
greed.
“Though greed may have played a part,”
continues the Public, “along with many
another impulse, it could have been only on
the surface. Greed does not run deep. This
was proved by the truest of tests at the
climax of the tragedy. At that supreme
72
THE
CRISIS
moment when human souls were on trial the
appeal to brotherhood was intuitive and
overwhelming. Kiser’s inspiring verse
gives us the picture:
Christian and Jew and humble and high,
Master and servant, they stood at last
Bound by a glorious brotherly tie.
ccAt last! But why only at last? Was the
spirit of brotherhood absent before? Had
greed crowded it out? Had consciousness
of race or class made it insensible to every
emotion but fear of death? This cannot
be. Fear of death could not awaken a sense
of brotherhood, fear of death could not
make way for a democratic spirit to rise
supreme—not if that sense, not if this spirit,
were less powerful among humhn passions
than selfishness. No; not selfishness but
democracy is the power that moves mankind
at every crisis. Yet there is an unhappy
significance, unintended, it may be, but true,
in Kiser’s words—‘at last.’ Is it only ‘at
last,’ then, only when Death duels with
Life, that the brotherly tie becomes the tie
that binds, the democratic instinct the in-
stinct that triumphs?
“It may seem so. Daily tragedies to
which the ‘Titanic’ disaster is by comparison
a trifling incident make it seem so. These
tragedies are due to the laws under which
we live; they are the frightful price that
all have to pay for the luxury of some; but
as to them, where is the brotherly inspira-
tion to drive away greed, where the demo-
cratic instinct to dethrone the instinct of
self-love? Well may the question be asked,
and hard enough may the finding of the
answer be.
“It cannot be from any lack of the demo-
cratic instinct that beneficiaries of privilege
are selfishly indifferent to the heartsickening
perennial tragedies of our industrial life.
Not very different can any of them be from
those of their own class who went down
with the ‘Titanic.’ If they are careless of
the awful industrial tragedies, or cold toward
them, it must be because their democracy is
not awakened. On that doomed vessel,
along with their brethren of all classes there,
those children of privilege, face to face with
the tragic, were as democratic and as brave
as any. What they lack is not democracy
but imagination.
“Let the privileged see the industrial
ragedies they thrive upon, make them real-
:e the tragical cost of their selfish luxury,
and their icy greed will melt in the heat of
their democracy. Real as their selfishness
is, truly as it helps to make poverty and
crime, it is no more basic or controlling with
their class than with any other. Let their
imaginations be fired, and they will feel
their brotherhood and think of its respon-
sibilities.”
The Egyptian writer,
negroes op	Duse Mohammed, in an
genius.	article published in
T. P.’s London Magazine, goes at some length
into the history of various colored men in
Europe and America who have distinguished
themselves as writers and musicians:
“It is rather a remarkable fact that three
men of Ethiopian blood—Poushkin in Russia,
Dumas in France and Coleridge-Taylor in
England—should have added lustre, through
their names, to the art of the countries that
gave them birth. And what is true of Europe
is still more remarkable in the land of the
dollars. Dvorak once said that the Ameri-
cans had no national music except that
emanating from Negro melodies, and that it
was to the Negro that the Americans would
have to look for creative work in that
direction.
“Quite recently Puccini, on his return to
Europe after producing ‘The Girl of the
Golden West’ in New York, although not
going so far as Dvorak, also averred that the
only music the Americans possessed was the
Negro melodies.
“Alexander Sergeievich Poushkin, born
in 1799 of a noble Russian family, on the
paternal side had an Ethiopian grandfather,
Alexander Dumas the elder, born 1802, was
descended from an African grandmother
from Haiti and a French nobleman. Samuel
Coleridge-Taylor, born in London in 1S75,
is the son of a West African doctor and an
English mother, and there is in America
Will Marion Cook, with both maternal and
paternal African forbears.
“Dumas did for French fiction what Sir
Walter Scott accomplished in English liter-
ature, but while Scott’s style is ponderous
and for the most part tedious, like the tread
of a lumbering elephant, Dumas’ style is
light and airy, like the gambol of a gazelle.
“Poushkin not only gave dignity to Rus-
sian poetry, but his prose works, which
include such novels as ‘The Captain’s
OPINION
73
Daughter’ and ‘Dubnovski,’ and his ‘His-
tory of the Pugatcheff Insurrection’ —for
which he received 20,000 rubles in 1883—
gave Russian prose a literary perfection.
“Samuel Coleridge-Taylor’s genius may be
said to have asserted itself when, as a boy
of six, Mr. Joseph Beckwith discovered
him in Waddon New Road, Croydon,
‘holding a very small-sized violin in one
hand and playing at marbles with the other.’
‘Hiawatha’ was produced when Coleridge-
Taylor was 23. He has been recently elected
principal professor of musical composition
at the Guildhall School of Music, London.
For five years he has been, and still is, con-
ductor of the Handel Society of London.
“Paul Laurence Dunbar, the pure-blooded
Ethiopian poet, may be termed the Burns
of the Negro race. William Dean Howells,
in his introduction to Dunbar’s ‘Lyrics of
Lowly Life,’ says:	‘What struck me in
.reading Mr. Dunbars poetry was that, how-
ever gifted his race had proved itself in
music, in oratory, in several of the other
arts, here was the first instance of an Ameri-
can Negro who had evinced innate distinc-
tion in literature.’
“As long as the Ethiopian race shall
continue to produce Coleridge-Tavlors, Dun-
bars, Booker T. Washingtons, Du Boises,
Blydens, Marion Cooks and others who have
made an impression upon their age, whether
in law*, letters, music or the sister arts, so
long will there be hope for the social, mate-
rial and political advancement of the
Ethiopian race.”
“But if proof positive of a soul in the
Negro people should be demanded,” says
Walter Damrosch in the Southern Workman,
“it can be given, for they have brought over
from Africa and developed in this country,
even under all the unfavorable conditions
of slavery, a music so wonderful, so beauti-
ful, and yet so strange, that like the gypsy
music of Hungary, it is at once the admira-
tion and despair of educated njftsicians of
our race. Unique and inimitable, it is the
only music of this country, except that of
the Indians, which can claim to be folk
music. In it the Negroes pour out their
joys and their sorrows in naive but wonder-
fully moving fashion; and in the face of
such testimony of emotional and esthetical
beauty, who dare deny them wider future
possibilities in the great work of liberation
of mind and soul which is now going on ?”
“The Telegrajih,” says the Macon paper
of that name, “has more than once cited
facts to show that while a large class of
Southern whites are suffering for the lack of
compulsory education laws, the Negroes do
not appear to be in need of any such spur,
the eagerness of the latter to take advan-
tage of all the educational advantages within
reach being displayed on every* hand. The
results of the conditions indicated a couple
of generations hence, provided that mean-
while larger funds for public schools are not
appropriated and compulsory* education
laws are not enacted, promise to be such as
all intelligent Southern whites must shudder
to contemplate.”
The Charlotte (N. C.) Observer says:
“The statement made by Joe Garibaldi,
who has had general oversight of the
sanitary improvements that have been made
in the city during the past several months,
that the colored citizen is more amenable to
the law than the white, is significant. Mr.
Garibaldi says that when the law is ex-
plained to the colored citizen owning his
home, he goes more immediately to the task
of obeying the law than the average white
citizen owning his home.”
Politics take up some space in the colored
press, although the causes of the various
candidates are not often argued at lensrth.
The Oklahoma Safeguard sums up the situ-
ation pretty well:
“We are continually being asked the
question by those who are interested: ‘Where
is the Negro and how does he stand?’ We
frequently give this answer: The Negro is
not standing in this campaign. He is now
looking out for a place to light and he is
not very particular what limb he lights
upon. We are tired of voting so much for
the other fellow and getting nothing for
ourselves.”
We have not the pleasure of knowing the
Mr. Fraser referred to below, but we can-
not forbear setting before our readers this
account of his adventures as set forth in a
Hampton Institute press notice: “Mr.
Fraser contracted the dreaded ‘sleeping sick-
ness’ while in Uganda. Africa, but recovered
his health, contrary to the hopes and ex-
pectations of those who know about the
death-dealiug malady.”
t
MEMBERS.
HE fourth annual confer-
ence, the most successful
ever held, has passed
into history. It remains
for you, reader, to com-
plete its work. Rally
round the organization; join yourself
and secure other members. Make the
National Association for the Advance-
ment of Colored People the strongest
and the best fighter in America for the
rights of man. Let us come to the
fifth conference next spring with 2.500
paying members.
m
TRIUMPH.
E T the eagle scream!
America is redeemed at
Coatesville. “Some peo-
ple talk of punishing the
heroic mob, and the
governor of Pennsyl-
vania seems to be real provoked. We
hasten to assure our readers that noth-
ing will be done. There may be a few
formal arrests, but the men will be
promptly released by the mob sitting as
jury—perhaps even as judge. America
knows her true heroes. ”
This we said some nine months ago
when the crucifixion at Coatesville was
new in its horror.. Some of our readers
took us roundly to task at the time, but
to-day we can proudly announce the
fulfilment of our prophecy: The last
lyncher is acquitted and the best tradi-
tions of Anglo-Saxon civilization are
safe.
,Let the eagle scream!
EDUCATION.
ONSIDER this argument:
Education is the train-
ing of men for life. The
best training is experi-
ence, but if we depended
entirely upon this each
generation would begin where the last
began and civilization could not
advance.
We must then depend largely on oral
and written tradition and on such bits
of typical experience as we can arrange
for the child’s guidance to life.
More than that, children must be
trained in the technique of earning a
living and doing their part of * the
world’s work.
’But no training in technique must
forget that the object of education is the
child and not the things he makes.
Moreover, a training simply in tech-
nique will not do because general intel-
ligence is needed for any trade, and the
technique of trades changes.
Indeed, by the careful training of in-
telligence and ability, civilization is
continually getting rid of the hardest
and most exhausting toil, and giving it
over to machines, leaving human beings
freer for higher pursuits and self-
development.	.
Hence, colored people in educating
their children should be careful:
First: To conserve and select ability,
giving to their best minds higher college
'training.
Second:	They should endeavor to
give all their children the largest possi-
ble amount of general training and in-
telligence before • teaching them the
EDITORIAL
75
technique of a particular trade, remem-
bering that the object of all true educa-
tion is not to make men carpenters, but
to make carpenters men.
Is not this reasoning sound? Could
you imagine an educator of any experi-
ence who would take material exception
to it? Would you call it revolutionary
or in the nature of a “personal”
attack ?
Certainly not.
Yet this very argument, with illustra-
tions and emphasis delivered to some
seven hundred apparently well-pleased
folk in Indianapolis, has had the most
astounding results. The Indianapolis
Star in a leading editorial denounced
it as “dangerous!”
A leading white philanthropist of
abolition forbears considered it not only
“misleading” and “mischievous” but a
covert and damaging personal attack!
The supervisor of the colored schools
of Indianapolis wrote to express regret
that the lecture had seemed to attack
his school curriculum and ideals, and
the assistant superintendent of schools
in the District of Columbia hastens to
give advice!
Yet where is the flaw in the
argument ?
There is no flaw, but there are serious
flaws in the thinking of some of these
critics.
The first flaw is the naive assumption
that the paraphernalia of a school shows
the education it is imparting. If some
people see a Greek book and a cap and
gown, they conclude that the boy be-
tween them is receiving higher educa-
tion. But is he? That depends. If
other people see a hammer, a saw and
a cook book, they conclude that the boy
who uses them is being trained in in-
telligence, ability and the earning of a
living. But is he? That depends.
When the proud principal of a school
shows workshop and kitchen, table and
pie, one may be interested, but one is
no more convinced than when another
shows an array of Greek roots and
rounded phrases. One must merely re-
mark: The end of education is neither
the table nor the phrase—it is the boy;
what kind of boys are you training
here? Are they boys quickened in in-
telligence, with some knowledge of the
world they live in ? Are they trained in
such ways as to discover their true bent
and ability, and to be intelligently
guided to the choice of a life work?
Then your system is right. Otherwise
it is wrong, and not all the gingham
dresses in Indiana will justify it.
The second flaw is the more or less
conscious determination of certain folk
to use the American public-school system
for the production of laborers who will
do the work they want done. To them
Indianapolis exists for the sake of its
factories and not the factories for the
sake of Indianapolis. They want din-
ners, chairs and motor cars, and they
want them cheap; therefore use the
public schools to train servants, carpen-
ters and mechanics. It does not occur
to them to think of workingmen as exist-
ing for their own sakes. What with
impudent maids, and half-trained work-
ingmen, they are tired of democracy:
they want caste; a place for everybody
and everybody in his father’s place with
themselves on top, and “Niggers” at the
bottom where they belong. To such folk
the problem of education is strikingly
simple. To teach the masses to work;
show them how to do things; increase
their output; give them intelligence, of
course; but this as a means, not as an
end, and be careful of too much of it.
Of course, if a meteoric genius bursts
his birth’s invidious bar, let him escape,
but keep up the bars, and as most men
are fools, treat them and train them as
such.
It was such darkened counsels as these
that brought the French Revolution. It
is such mad logic as this that is at the
bottom of the social unrest to-day.
The lecturer came to Indianapolis not
to criticise, but to warn—not to attack,
but to make straight the way of the
Lord. He is no despiser of common
humble toil; God forbid! He and his
76
THE
CRISIS
fathers before him have worked with
their hands at the lowliest occupations
and he honors any honest toilers at any
task; but he makes no mistake here. It
is the toilers that he honors, not the task
—the man and not the Thing. The
Thing may or may not be honorable—
the man always is.
Yet the despising of men is growing
and the caste spirit is rampant in the
land; it is laying hold of the public
schools and it has the colored public
schools by the throat, North, East, South
and West. Beware of it, my brothers
and dark sisters; educate your children.
Give them the broadest and highest edu-
cation possible; train them to the limit
of their ability, if you work your hands
to the bone in doing it. See that your
child gets, not the highest task, but the
task best fitted to his ability, whether it
be digging dirt or painting landscapes;
remembering that our recognition as
common folk by the world depends on
the number of men of ability we pro-
duce—not great geniuses, but efficient
thinkers and doers in all lines. Never
forget that if we ever compel the world’s
respect, it will be by virtue of our heads
and not our heels.
m
SUFFERING SUFFRAGETTES.
HE woman suffragists are
wincing a bit under the
plain speaking of The
Crisis. President Anna
Shaw writes us:
‘ ‘There is not in the
National Association any discrimination
against colored people. If they do not
belong to us it is merely because they
have not organized and have not made
application for membership. Many
times we have had colored women on
our program and as delegates, and I,
personally, would be only too glad to
welcome them as long as I am president
of the National Association.
“At the State convention in Ithaca a
few days ago, when I was conducting
the question box, I was asked what I did
in Louisville in regard to admitting
women of Negro blood to the convention
and my reply was: ‘I did nothing in
regard to admitting women of Negro
blood to the convention. Our associa-
tion does not recognize either Negro
blood or white blood; what we stand for
is the demand for equal political rights
for women with men, and we know no
distinction of race.’ Our whole conten-
tion is for justice to women, white and
colored, and I do not think it will be
possible ever to change the platform of
the National Association in this respect.’’
The corresponding secretary has
heard vague rumors in Ohio and says:
“A somewhat indefinite report has
reached me that there is being circulated
a statement to the effect that the com-
mittee on resolutions of the National
American Woman Suffrage Association,
at the last annual convention held in
Louisville, Ky., ‘snowed under’ a
resolution condemning disfranchise-
ment of colored people in the South.
As I remember the circumstance that
probably gave rise to this misleading
report it was as follows: In the hurry
of the last meeting of the resolutions
committee, which was composed of one
member from each State, only a part of
the committee being present, several
resolutions on various subjects were pre-
sented, one being about as the above
recites. I do not recall that it read
‘colored people,’ though it may have
been meant to apply to them. No one
objected in any way to its provisions,
but one or two mentioned conditions in
other parts of the United States which
were against the free use of the ballot
and said that the resolution was not
broad enough. There was not time to
discuss it fully, so this one and some
other resolutions were not acted upon at
all. Those who proposed any of the
resolutions not acted upon by our com-
mittee had the opportunity and full lib-
erty to present them from the floor, so
that our committee did not feel that it
was ‘snowing under’ that resolution,
or any other, which it had not had time
EDITORIAL
77
to revise to make comprehensive enough
to include all similar abridgments of
rights guaranteed by the Constitution
of the United States.
“The ballotless women, I can assure
you, who attended that convention are
working for, and urging with all their
ability, strength and talents, the guar-
antee of civil and political rights for
all citizens of the United States
entitled to them.”
All this is pleasant and encouraging,
but does it present the facts in the case
exactly? Early in August Miss Martha
Gruening sought a chance to have a
colored delegate introduce the following
resolution at the Louisville convention
and speak on the floor:
“Resolved, that the women who are
trying to lift themselves out of the class
of the disfranchised, the class of the
insane and criminal, express their sym-
pathy with the black men and women
who are fighting the same battle and
recognize that it is as unjust and as
undemocratic to disfranchise human
beings on the ground of color as on
the ground of sex.”
President Anna Shaw refused abso-
lutely to invite the colored lady sug-
gested and said over her signature sev-
eral weeks before the convention:
“I must oppose the presentation of
that resolution at our national conven-
tion. I do not feel that we should go into
a Southern State to hold our national
convention and then introduce any sub-
ject which we know beforehand will do
nothing but create discord and inhar-
mony in the convention. The resolution
which you proposed to introduce would
do more to harm the success of our con-
vention in Louisville than all the other
things that we do would do good. I
am in favor of colored people voting,
but white women have no enemy in the
world who does more to defeat our
amendments, when submitted, than col-
ored men, and until women are recog-
nized and permitted to vote, I am
opposed to introducing into our women
suffrage convention a resolution in be-
half of men who, if our resolution were
carried, would go straight to the polls
and defeat us every time.”
We have already shown that the state-
ment that colored men oppose woman
suffrage is false, and we have only to
add that every effort was made to keep
this resolution from being presented;
and when it finally appeared it was
incontinently sidetracked in committee.
We are not surprised that under the cir-
cumstances the information of the cor-
responding secretary is “somewhat
indefinite.”
DECENCY.
Y a vote of 203 against
133, the German Reichs-
tag has declared that
marriages between Ger-
mans and native women
in the colonies are legal.
This is a triumph of sheer decency.
It does not compel any German to marry
a black or a brown woman. If Germans
do not want a mixed mulatto progeny
they may let the native woman alone.
The law simply says that a marriage in
fact is a marriage in law; that the virtue
of a colored woman in the German
colonies is to receive legal protection.
The simplest and barest demand of
even half-civilized justice was not
easily carried. It took the strength of
Socialists and Catholics, fighting against
the strongholds of German culture—the
liberals and the aristocracy. Here were
found the upholders of the dirtiest blot
of modern white contact with backward
races—the blot which makes the white
Christian Church of the South to-day
the strongest upholder of the system
which denies all protection in law and
custom to the helpless black girl before
the lust of the white man.
: IVl:
MOORFIELD STOREY
President of the Association
JANE ADD AMS
Honorary Chairman of Chicago Committee
of Arrangements
'•■••-.'V,
' ; ■ / V n-;	•	,
.f■ '.

i_________________
OSWALD GARRISON VTT.T. AT?D
Chairman of Board of
Photo by Peter P. Jones, Chicago,
Directors
THE FOURTH ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE NATIONAL ASSOC
A Group of Delegates on the Terrace of Hull House. In the group are Miss Jane Addams, Juc
Miss Mary W. Ovington, Mr. A1
IN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE AT CHICAGO
nvn, Bishop Lee, Mrs. Julius Rosenwald, Dr. Bentley, Dr. I. M. Rubinow, Miss Anna Jones,
Mr. S. Laing Williams and others.
5The FOURTH ANNUAL CONFERENCE
OF
‘The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People
rT"rllE Eourth Annual Conference of the
National Association for the Advance-
ment of Colored People at Chicago, April
28-30, was one of the most significant meet-
ings ever held in defense of the rights of
colored Americans, and the greatest of our
annual conferences.
In point of numbers, previous meetings
were far outdone. A thousand persons came
to the opening meeting at Sinai Temple
through a wild storm which the presiding
officer, Jane Addams, rightly described as a
“deluge.” At every other meeting, except
the executive morning session, the seven
hundred seats in Handel Hall were filled
and the doors had to be closed to keep
others out.
The speeches reached a high level of
earnestness and not a false note was struck.
There was a spirit of broad kindliness with
no touch of personal rancor, and* yet we
were not given a lukewarm mess of flat
platitudes. Mr. Villard set the pace with a
straightforward unswerving statement of
the aims of this association, and the funda-
mental points on which it differed from the
party of silence and compromise. The
note thus struck was courageously echoed
and distinctly stated by Judge Brown on the
one hand and Charles Edward Russell on the
other in two of the strongest speeches ever
delivered at our conferences.
Two other speeches, those of Mr. Rubinow
and Mr. Du Bois, gave the conference an
unusual grasp of facts with pictures of
the actual color line and a parallelism
between the Russian peasant and Jew on the
one hand and the colored American on the
other.
There were scattered throughout the ses-
sion speeches of widely different character
from those mentioned: The amusing and
keenly epigrammatic oratory of Pickens, the
calm sweet universalism of Abdul Baha and
the interesting statement of Dr. Kealing.
The 'last night presented a scene which
one would travel far to see. A Jewish rabbi
presided; on the platform were Mrs.
Emmons Blaine and Mrs. Cyrus McCormick,
her mother; among the speakers were three
striking personalities: the president of the
Illinois Miners’ Labor Union; a Southern
while man; the head of a colored settlement;
and a cultivated colored woman who in
quiet tones told of the dynamiting of her
own home. As opening and climax to this
remarkable gathering came a speech of
Abdul Baha and a farewell from Julius
Rosenwald. Small wonder that a thousand
disappointed people were unable to get even
standing room in the hall.
Many striking personalities were seen and
felt in the gatherings; first of all Jane
Addams—calm, sweet and so absolutely
fearless when she sees the right—and her
co-worker, Miss Lathrop, who is to head the
new National Children’s Bureau; the vener-
able Bishop Lee was an interested listener
and presiding officer, and Miss Nerney, the
new executive secretary who comes to us
June 1, had her first experience in a con-
ference of this sort. Much of the social life
of the conference centered at Hull House,
where two luncheons and a large reception
were given.
Every one who attended the conference
expressed pleasure and gratitude at the work
of the local committee and especially at the
publicity work of Mr. Hallinan, the excellent
secretarial work of Mr. Allinson and Dr.
Bentley’s invaluable co-operation. To such
a meeting the letter of the governor of
Illinois was a fitting greeting: “I am sure
that a well-organized association such as
yours cannot fail to be of great service, not
only to the race whose interests it is your
special concern to promote and protect, but
to society at large whose aims and purposes
are essentially the same as their own.”
We are able to give some of the admirable
addresses in this issue of The Crisis, while
others which we are obliged to omit now,
for lack of space, we hope to give our
readers at a future date.
SOME OF THE DELEGATES
The Objects of the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People
By OSWALD GARRISON VILLARD. Chairman of the Executive Committee
HE objects of the National
Association for the Ad-
vancement of Colored Peo-
ple may be put into a
single sentence: This so-
ciety exists in order to
combat the spirit of perse-
cution and prejudice which confronts the
colored people of this land, and to assure to
them every right, privilege and opportunity
to which every citizen of the United States
is entitled. That it exists at all is in itself
an indictment of our American democracy.
For it asks no favors, no privileges, no
special advantages or benefits for those dis-
advantaged ones, whose fathers and mothers
but fifty years ago to-day were still being
sold upon the auction block as so much live
slock. It does not, of course, ask that finan-
cial reparation be made to them for what
their race suffered under the monstrous ag-
gregation of wrongdoing which went by the
name of slavery; the colored people them-
selves never demanded any such damages in
the courts of law, or of public opinion. It
does not even ask special indulgence for
any of their shortcomings or beg for them
unusual economic and educational oppor-
tunities because of their disadvantages and
the frightful inheritance of vice and ignor-
ance which was the chief bequest of slavery.
It merely asks equality of opportunity,
equality at the ballot box, equality in the
courts of the land.
Surely this is a simple enough platform—
a reasonable enough demand. Theoretically,
all but those most imbued with race preju-
dice grant the justness of our contentions.
Theoretically, everybody in this country
throws his cap in the air each day and
asserts that all men are born free and equal
and fit to govern themselves. And yet there
are many persons interested in the welfare
of the Negro who look with suspicion upon
our simple platform and hold aloof from
our work, for there are two schools of
thought even among those who feel that the
Negro is at all times grievously wronged and
at times shockingly maltreated. The dif-
ference between % the two schools is chiefly
one of method. There are, for instance,
those prominent in the educational work
among the Negroes of the South, both white
and black, who feel that it is a mistake to
dwell upon injuries and wrongs, outrages
and persecution, because, in their belief, the
82
THE CRISIS
cure can only come through the slow educa-
tion of all the people, and with the lapse
of an indefinite amount of time. It does
not worry them that during the past decades
no effective protest was made against dis-
franchisement; one State after another has
deprived the black man of his vote and dis-
criminated against him in a hundred differ-
ent ways. They believed, at the time, like
many an honest Southerner, that the dis-
franchisement laws were blessings in dis-
guise because, first, they would incite the
Negro to educate himself and his children
that he might qualify as a voter, so far as
the educational test is concerned; and, sec-
ondly, that with the removal of the Negro
from politics he would find himself free to
develop materially and socially; in fact,
along every other line save the political one.
They are not daunted to-dav by the fact
that their forecasts have proved incorrect,
that the Negro is still in politics in the
South, that his way upward from slavery
is barred by many a bhrrier, and hindered
by many a needless obstacle—by prejudice,
by the caste feeling, by the malicious spirit
of persecution, which, in some instances of
late, finds its satiation only in burning
women alive. Still the cry with them is
“Time and patience.” This association they
deem too radical. Like the old abolition
societies, this is believed to be a mischief
maker, because it is willing in season and
out of season to lay unpleasant facts before
the public. Its organ of opinion, The
Crisis, is not always optimistic, but usually
pessimistic, if that adjective covers properly
its monthly chronicle of crimes against the
race and against the law, the mocking of the
courts, the passing of segregation ordinances
that would make ghettos in each one of our
Southern cities, and other reactionary hap-
penings of the same kind. With these re-
formers the cry is, to paraphrase the French
philosopher: “Patience, patience—it is the
most beautiful thing in the world.” They
are silent in the face of all this wrongdoing
unless at times and places where it is safe
to speak out against the growing lynching
habit. They look with ill-concealed uneasi-
ness upon those who would make each sin-
gle wrongdoing as a fire bell in the night to
alarm the conscience of the people. Their
duty as they see it is to serve, but not to
protect; to sit silent if need be in the pres-
ence of sin, with their eyes fixed only upon
the numerous and encouraging signs that
this republic will in the long run not tole-
rate injustice against a class or race among
its citizens.
For this opinion, honestly held, particu-
larly when advocated by those in the edu-
cational field, one can have the fullest re-
spect if it is consistently adhered to, but
that is not the policy of this association.
It is not content to sit idly by and see
wrong done, even though certain at heart
that in the long run righteousness will pre-
vail, that the mills of the gods grind ex-
ceedingly fine, however slowly. While see-
ing nothing in the history of the last one
hundred years, but a steady progress toward
true democracy; reading this in the story of
all Europe, of England, of France, Ger-
many and Italy, and latterly even in Turkey
and Persia, Japan and China, as well as in
the development of the woman suffrage
movement in this country and abroad and
in the rise of the progressive movement in
the United States and its purpose to strike
at special privilege, the members of the asso-
ciation still feel as much entitled to point
out our national wrongdoing and to strike
at intrenched privilege as the Abolitionists
felt at liberty to assail every citadel gar-
risoned by slaveholders or their sym-
pathizers. Ours, too, is a battle for de-
mocracy, pure and undefiled. It is not for
us to compromise, however much others
may feel the necessity of doing so. It is
not for us to withhold our scorn and in-
dignation when we see colored men and
women outraged, robbed, maimed or burned
in Pennsylvania or in Illinois, in Mississippi
or in Georgia. On the contrary, it is our
duty to speak out that everyone may know
and hear.
Observing the situation carefully, what do
the members of this association behold in
the country at large? That abstract jus-
tice appeals to us all is plain. The nation
boasts of this as it does of that alleged
equality of opportunity by which the hum-
blest rail splitter of them all may rise to
the White House. Then it makes a prompt
exception to the rule and says that the
colored man may rise, not according to his
industry, or his merit, or his talents, but
only so far as his white fellows will let him.
He may not live in the White House; he
may not even take a meal there. Thus
abstract justice loses considerable of its
abstractness, and those of the white skin
who sit in judgment upon the Negro are as
ADDRESS OF MR.
O. G. VILLARD
83
much outraged by the idea that lie may
know a little hit better what he needs and
what is good for him than anybody else,
•as were the lords of England in 1775 upset
by the theory that- the Colonists of America
were the best judges of what made for their
happiness and welfare. We hear on all sides
in this year of our lord 1912 much to the
effect that the people shall rule; that direct
government is what we need to cure ail our
political ills; that the people may he trusted
with complete control of legislation and of
the executive offices of city and State as
well as of the judiciary—hut not the col-
ored man. For his benefit the country-
waves aside every one of these doctrines
so warmly espoused and connives at the
Negro’s disfranchisement by the hundred
thousand on the ground that it is for his
own good. The violation of the Constitu-
tion which this procedure involves affects
them not at all. The magic powers with
which the initiative, referendum and recall
have been endowed are, it appears, potent
only when these devices of government are
availed of by white men; they cease to
operate for the communal advantage if
colored men vote and desire to evoke their
aid.
Again we learn that the affectionate term
“God’s Country,” applied by so many to our
land, is interchangeable with -White Man's
Country,” and that this term is again syn-
onymous with trickery and wrongdoing: yes,
even wholesale murder and a denial of the
courts of justice, if necessary, to black men
—on all which proceeding the God, who
owns this country, looks down, it is con-
fidently asserted, with complete satisfaction.
Thus, the color line does more than to set
apart the sheep and the goats among us;
more even than to throw out of gear this
new political machinery upon which so
many of our fellow citizens base their hope
of a future democracy. Fundamental po-
litical actions and principles go by the
hoard when it is asserted that they apply
only in a community in which the whites
are in a comfortable majority. The law ot
gravitation remains unchanged under all cir-
cumstances, so does the multiplication table
when those who con it are black; but when
a community largely Negroid begins to
chant the sacred fundamental truths that
government rests only on the consent of
the governed; that, as Lincoln put it—‘*No
man is good enough to govern another with-
out that other's consent”—then we learn that
these truisms upon which our whole struc-
ture of government rests are truisms only
when they apply to men of white blood.
It is just as if we declared that the teach-
ings of Christianity itself apply only to the
white man, and cease to be effective or
binding or to provide a sound chart of life
for those inhabitants of this universe who
have a drop of Negro blood in their veins.
That is what the slogan of “White Man's
Country” means, the giving the lie to every
political principle, to every democratic be-
lief. to every article of American faith, to
every tenet of religion. Should we not be
A SOCIAL GATHERING OF THE DELEGATES
84
THE CRISIS
wickedly recreant to those principles and
doctrines if there were not some Americans
ready to band together to declare with all
the strength that comes with union in an
unselfish cause, that our treatment of the
colored people of to-day tarnishes the coun-
try’s good name, mocks and flouts our re-
publican institutions and makes a hypocrite
of the nation for which we are ready to
give our lives?
It was three years ago that the need be-
came so clear as to bring this organization
into being. Three years ago marked the
centennial of the birth of Abraham Lincoln,
surely the most fitting time of all to found
such an undertaking. From small begin-
nings it has grown rapidly. Its organ of
public opinion, The Crisis, reaches more
than 22,000 readers. Branches have been
organized in Boston, Chicago, Baltimore,
Washington and New York, and there is a
host of applications for branches elsewhere
on file in our main office. Meetings have
been held in great numbers. The associa-
tion’s centenary celebrations of Sumner,
Phillips and Harriet Beecher Stowe have
done not a little to keep alive the spirit of
the abolition times. The work of legal
redress is going on apace; there is being
undertaken at the present time a careful in-
vestigation of one of the most terrible of
lvnchings, one of more than one hundred
which took place during the year 1911. In
every direction the effort is being made to
obtain the truth about the progress of the
colored people, and to put the facts in their
case before the public.

• THE NATION’S DUTY
An address delivered at the conference in Chicago by the Honorable EDWARD O. BRO^VN,
Justice of the Appellate Court. First District of the State of Illinois
AM glad to express my
hearty and enthusiastic
sympathy with the pur-
poses of this association,
of which, from its organi-
zation, I have been proud
to be a member.
It is not with any benevolent, charitable or
condescending spirit that we of the white
race are or should be in this movement. The
Negro citizens of the United States are not
asking charitable assistance from us.# They
are asking our aid as a matter of right, of
our own self-respect—the aid which every
high-minded man, who is unwarped in his
thought by some conventional prejudice, of
whatever race or creed or complexion he may
be, instinctively wishes to give to anyone
whom he sees hurt or oppressed by a
stronger force unjustly used. It is a duty
every American of the white race owes to
himself and to his white fellow citizens quite
as much as he does to the Negro to see to
it, so far as he is able, that the color of a
man’s skin shall not subject him to insult,
oppression and injustice in a country boast-
ing of its democracy, its liberty and the
political equality of its citizens. The people
of the United States, more than any other
people of the earth, should recognize the
obligation to prevent racial partisanship and
prejudice from controlling or influencing
our conduct toward the Negro. Yet • a
dominant portion of our fellow citizens
to-day go beyond the people of any other
country in the world in unjust discrimina-
tion against him, not only in political mat-
ters, but also in business, in education and
in all the activities of civic, community and
social life.
I say that we of the United States are
most clearly bound to avoid and. when it
ADDRESS OF JUDGE E. O. BROWN
85
shows itself, to repress the manifestations of
this spirit of injustice and oppression, be-
cause our fathers at least, if not we our-
selves, were participants in the national
crime which gave it birth. No one to-day,
unless it be some dreaming reactionary,
whose thoughts and life are altogether with
the past, and who is without influence on a
society with which he is out of touch, ven-
tures to defend chattel slavery; but it is
because our fathers and grandfathers were
obliged in deference to their own conscience
to attempt to justify the chattel slavery of
Negroes by holding and teaching themselves
and others to believe that Negroes were in-
ferior beings, unfit to be trusted to govern
or even to care for themselves, that we,
their descendants of the present day, to such
a great extent persist, now that chattel slav-
er}- is dead and its justification abandoned,
in treating them still as such inferior beings,
in defiance of the evident fact that the
Negro, in each class of his own society, can
and does govern and care for himself equally
as well as the white man of the correspond-
ing class.
When the impressions of the Civil War
were fresh upon us, at the time I became a
citizen and a voter, a great majority of the
people of the North at least felt the respon-
sibility which had been imposed upon them.
We had fought a great war to preserve the
Federal Union. Although this war was not
begun with the purpose nor even the hope
of abolishing slavery, it became evident long
before the end that it was the antipathy to
slavery on the part of the masses of the
Northern people that supplied that moral
motive and enthusiasm which supported the
Federal Government to its final victory. This
is questioned, I know. It is merely my own
belief that I am stating, and it is not neces-
sary to the main thought that I would put
before you; namely, the moral obligation we
of the Northern part of our common country
are under now, as much as we were immedi-
ately after the Civil War, to stand for jus-
tice to the Negro. For, whether necessarily
or not, the Federal Government and we of
the North did turn that war, long before its
close, into a war having for its inevitable end
the abolition of slavery. Then we accepted
everywhere we could get it the assistance
of the Negroes, to whom we professed we
were bringing liberty and advancement. We
used their free men of the North for soldiers:
their freedmen of the South for scouts, for
fort builders, for foragers and commissaries.
The Negroes of the South were largely the
eyes and ears of our armies in the field.
We were successful. We took no end of
glory to ourselves for the redemption and
emancipation of a race. We were full of
moral fervor for the education, the elevation
and the advancement of the Negro.
When the Southern planters, stripped of
position and fortune and, as they thought,
of most that had made life worth the living
to them, were not unnaturally found en-
tirely unable to understand the new relations
into which they had been thrown with their
former slaves, and began, by legal codes
framed for that purpose, to reinstitute a
peonage or serfdom for the blacks which
should keep them in the tutelage and guard-
ianship under which their former owners
said they could alone live and prosper, we
of the North were at a white heat of indig-
nation. Never was there more political rage
than in the so-called reconstruction times,
and the great majority of the citizens of the
North declared in effect by their votes, not
once but many times during those days, that
the nation was under a moral duress to pro-
tect its wards from injustice, from oppres-
sion, and from the deadly injury of social
and political ostracism. Civil-rights bills,
national and State, were passed. Military
force in times of peace was unsparingly
used. Constitutional precedents and consti-
tutional arguments were swept away because
the people rightly and justly held that na-
tions, like men, were bound by fundamental
principles of honor, and that we could not
take the responsibility of setting men free,
severing them from the care for their purely
material and physical welfare which the self-
interests of their owners had led to, and
accepting their efficient aid in carrying the
burden of a great national task, and then
abandon them to the control of men who had
never entertained an idea that they could
occupy any position not of inferiority and
subjection.
But this view led to further action. We
gave to the newly enfranchised the suffrage.
We made great efforts to provide for their
education. We raised in the mind of many
a colored youth thoughts and aspirations to
which he would have been a stranger had it
not been for the line of action taken by the
dominant part of the country at that time.
We would not tolerate political oppression
nor social oppression of these, our wards, we
86
THE CRISIS
said. They had stood by us; we were bound
to stand by them, to put it on no higher
plane. But there was a higher plane. Wc
had taken them from the physical, moral
and intellectual guardianship of their mas-
ters and owners. We had undertaken to
make of them free men and citizens of our
common country, and by all common princi-
ples of honorable action, and by the funda-
mental idea of our political system, we were
bound to see that they were given, so far
as law and community usage went, equal
opportunities with every other free man and
citizen to make of themselves the best that
God had rendered possible.
Now, when a State or a civic community
has once undertaken a duty like that, there
is no way for it in honor to retreat or
withdraw.
Every step in education or social advance-
ment we opened to these people made any
political inequality, any social injustice, any
ostracism, any oppression or insult, more
bitter to them than it had ever been before.
For a Southern State to hold free Negroes
before the war under the restrictions and
inequalities which there bound them was
hard and brutal enough. But for Massa-
chusetts, for example, before the war, to
have attempted to place upon her respected
citizens of the African race the same re-
strictions, after they had been for years
treated as entitled to equality of oppor-
tunity, of education and of political rights,
would have been a much more stupendous
crime, against which the natural sense of
justice in civilized men everywhere would
have revolted.
But what has happened? The Negroes
have certainly come fairly up in all the
things dependent on their own exertions, in
all things where they have been allowed to
control their own actions and have been
given a chance to avail themselves of equal
opportunities, to what could in reason have
been expected of a race of which the great
majority had been in bondage, prohibited
by law from education and from any of the
individual enterprises by which men in a
competing state of society rise to success
and distinction. They have become in one
generation planters, business men, profes-
sional men, teachers, bankers, artists, musi-
cians and authors. They have reared
theatres and established schools and colleges
of their own; they have built churches, hos-
pitals and orphan asylums of their own.
The United States census returns have shown
to what a wonderful extent, in the midst of
conditions which I am about to mention and
deplore, the colored people of this country,
especially in the South, have made a story
of upward stiiving, of progress and of
advancement.
But I say' again, every advance that the
Negro has made has rendered the more brutal
and cruel, the meaner and more dishonorable
acts of discrimination and insult against him.
He feels them all the more; lie resents them
all the more, and lie is justified in doing so.
And we see around us a reaction, a moral
lowering of the standards of honor in our
treatment of the Negro. For the last quar-
ter of the century at least that lowering has
been going on from bad to worse quite as
much in the North, in our own communities,
as in the South. Segregation in schools,
segregation in churches, segregation in thea-
tres, segregation in business and professional
associations, in traveling conveyances—a
segregation which means an utterly unjusti-
fiable and illegal ostracism, bad as it is, is
but the least of the outrages under which the
Negro race has been suffering in this
country.
By what seems to me the most deplorably
growing popular prejudice, and one without
cause save the inherent vulgarity of those
who foster it, wc are practically attempting
to shut out the Negroes from all but a few
occupations, denying them thus even the
opportunity to show whether or not they are
our inferiors.
George Bernard Shaw, in one of his in-
imitable passages of humorous sarcasm,
speaks of the sweet reasonableness of the
Yankees who first preventing Negroes from
following any occupation but that of the
bootblack or the waiter, then proclaim as
evidence of the intellectual inferiority of the
Negroes, that they are only bootblacks or
waiters.
One of our municipal court judges the
other day publicly alluded in terms of praise
to the honest lives that the Negroes of
Chicago lead in the face of hardships and
temptations, declaring that in times when
work was scarce they suffered more than
any other class, being absolutely barred from
many kinds of employment open to white
workers.
Despite this attempt at restriction, cruel,
injurious and ineffably mean as it is, the
native ability and genius of many a colored
ADDRESS OF JUDGE E. O. BROWN
87
man has shown forth conspicuously, as I
have said, in every high department of busi-
ness and intellectual activity.
But this constant, continuous and studied
erection of worst and meanest of caste sys-
tems, one based on nothing hut a man’s
racial complexion (for there are neither
religious nor political differences of opinion
to reckon with), keeps even these exceptional
men in a lifelong feeling of injury and
injustice.
Do we not owe it to ourselves, as well
as to them, to agitate, to educate, and, if
we must, to legislate, and to enforce the
legislation, until we shall shake off the be-
numbing influence of this reaction against
the ideals of human liberty and human
brotherhood of fifty years ago? For one, I
should feel unworthy of the Massachusetts
ancestry from which I sprang if I could
bring myself to indifference on this subject.
But what of the darker side of this picture
—the outrages which go beyond ostracism
or insult or restriction, to the most fiendish
of murders? What, as a judge of the third
commonwealth of the United States, can I
say to my English friends and relatives who
ask me if it is true that in this State a few
brief years ago racial prejudice ran lawless
riot in the streets of its capital, near the
very tomb of the great emancipator, and
murdered Negroes, and that no one has been
punished?
That they may ask it is clear enough.
When that later crime at Coatesville, in
Pennsylvania, which I shudder in speaking
of, was detailed in the public prints, the
Philadelphia Record said, with aptness and
truth (I quote from this month’s issue of
The Crisis, which you doubtless all have
seen) :
“In the London clubs and public houses
men are talking this week about American
savagery. Wondering Chinese in Shanghai
and Peking are asking if this is the America
which they have accepted as their special
mentor. India, quick to draw historic paral-
lels, is pointing out that in the days of the
Moguls there was never a brutality like this
one from the part of America called Coates-
ville. Turkey lifts her bloody hands in self-
exculpation—there was never anything in an
Armenian massacre to equal this. Five con-
tinents and the islands of the sea are point-
ing lingers of scorn at this country because
of the black deed of one wild night in a
Pennsylvania borough.”
We have been told that in the last twenty-
five years 2,-000 Negroes have been lynched
in this country, and in only a minority of
the cases has there been even an allegation
of the crime that is put forward as ottering
the only excuse for this monstrous law-
lessness.
But as the murders have increased in
number and in barbarity, so they have
created less and less comment and indignant
protest; and senators of the United States
and governors of States defend them!
This at least I can say to my foreign
friends—this at least 1 shall say—that per-
sonally I have never refused and never will
refuse, as a minister of the law, as a citizen,
as a man, to do or say the little that I can
in aid of any movement and in the expres-
sion of any protest which is made against
those crying meannesses, wrongs and crimes.
Nor am I hopeless. The pendulum must
swing back. As Governor Altgeld once
finely expressed it: “Things will right them-
selves! The pendulum swings one way and
then another, but the steady pull of gravita-
tion is toward the center of the earth.
Wrong may seem to triumph. Right may
seem to be defeated. But the gravitation
of eternal justice is toward the throne of
God!”
But the duty of us all is plain—as plain
now as it was to the abolitionists of the
anti-war time. It is to speak out, freely and
boldly. We need to remember the words
of John Stuart Mill:
“It appears to me that when prejudices
persist obstinately it is the fault of nobody
so much as of those who make a point of
proclaiming them insuperable as an excuse
for never joining in an attempt to remove
them.
“Any prejudice whatever will be insur-
mountable if those who do not share it them-
selves truckle to it and flatter it and accept it
ns a law of nature.”
The BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
An address delivered at the Chicago Conference by ABDUL BAHA of Persia
OD has staled in the Bible,
the Old Testament: “We
have created man in our
own image and likeness.”
This statement indicates
the fact that man in
some particular is of the
image and likeness of God. This man who
has been called the image and likeness of
God: Let us find out just where and how
he is the image and likeness of the Lord,
and what is the standard or criterion
whereby he can be measured.
If a man should possess wealth, can we
call him an image and likeness of God?
Or is human honor the criterion whereby
he can be called the image of God? Or can
we apply a color test as a criterion, and
say such and such a one is colored with a
certain hue and he therefore is the image
of God? Can we say, for example, a man
who is green in hue is an image of God?
Or can we make another distinction, saying
that one who is white is any more an image
of God? Is simply the white color a
criterion whereby man is to be judged?
And shall we make a sweeping statement
like that? Or is it reasonable for us to
choose the dark color? Supposing we say a
colored man is after all the image and like-
ness, just because of his color, or the red-
skinned man, shall he be the image and
likeness of God? Or shall we declare the
yellow race to be a creation and therefore
an image and likeness of God? Hence we
come to the conclusion that colors are of
no importance.
Colors are accidental in nature. That
which is essential is the humanitarian as-
pect. And that is the manifestation of
Divine Virtues and that is the Merciful Be-
stowals. That is the Eternal Life. That is
the Baptism through the Holy Spirit.
Therefore let it be known that color is of
no importance*. Man, who is the image and
likeness of God, who is the Manifestation
of the Bestowals of God, he is acceptable
at the threshold of God whatever be his
color. Let him be blue in color, or white,
or green, or brown, that matters not! Man
is not to be pronounced man simply be-
cause of bodily attributes. Man is to be
judged according to his intelligence and to
his spirit. Because he is to be judged ac-
cording to spirit and intelligence, therefore,
let that be the only criterion. That is the
image of God.
As regards you here in this country, there
is a point of importance, namely, patriotism.
That is common to both. And from the
standpoint of language, you share that, both
of you speak one tongue. And you have
in common the same civilization. And now,
with these numerous points of partnership
or contact and the one point of difference,
which is of the least importance, that of
color, are you going to allow this least of
differences, namely, that of color, to sepa-
rate you?
From the standpoint of the body, you
have that in common. All the five senses
and tangible properties of man you share.
As regards intelligence, you are both en-
dowed therewith. Patriotism is common to
both. From the standpoint of language
there is a point of contact. Your civiliza-
tion is one and the same. From the stand-
point of religion you are one and the same.
One point of distinction, and that is color.
Is it meet, is it becoming, with all the points
of contact, for this least point of distinction
or difference should there be any separation
or difference? Indeed, not! God is not
pleased, nor is any intelligent man pleased,
nor is any reasonable man willing to have
any difference because of that.
His Holiness, BahaVllah, has proclaimed
to the world the Oneness of the world of
humanity. He has caused the various na-
tions and divergent sects and creeds to unite,
and he has declared that the difference in
color in the human kingdom is similar to
the differences of the flowers, the variegated
flowers in a garden. If you enter a garden
you will see yellow flowers, white flowers,
dark, variegated flowers, the red flower, for
example, in the utmost of delicacy and
beauty, radiant, and each one through dif-
ference lends a charm to the other. This
difference in the human kingdom is similar
to that. And now were you to be ushered
into a garden where all the flowers were
to be of the same hue or • color, how
monotonous!
A WORD FROM MR. JULIUS ROSENWALD
89
Therefore, he has said that the various
colors of human kind, one is white, one is
black, one is yellow, one is red—this sort
of difference lends a harmony of color and
beauty to the whole. Therefore, all must
associate with one another, even as flowers
consort harmoniously together in a given
garden.
m
A. WORD FROM MR. JULIUS ROSENWALD.
"fyT R- CHAIRMAN, ladies and gentlemen:
Much against my will I allowed my-
self to be introduced, but I am going to
say just one word: We have heard a good
deal to-night about the struggles and the
hardships and the abuses that the colored
people of the North and the South have to
suffer, but there is one thing that has im-
pressed itself upon me since this organiza-
tion or this conference has started in
Chicago, and a few days before, and
that is the fact that the newspapers of this
city have been most outspoken in their
liberality and demand that the colored
people have their rights and be given better
treatment. If anything can be more promis-
ing than the editorials that have appeared in
the leading Chicago papers I wouldn’t know
what it could be. The Tribune, the
Record-Herald and the other papers have
simply outdone themselves in their liberality
and demand for the rights of the colored
man, and to my notion there oughtn’t to be
anything but optimism. That is the only
word I want to speak, and I believe it:
while there is a great struggle, and the
courts, as has been said here to-night, do
not give the colored man an equal show and
do discriminate against him, I want to
say to you that lots and lots of us people
suffer from the same cause. Any number
of immigrants in this country are discrimi-
nated against in the courts, and while
you are interested in your phase of the
discrimination, yet in the work that I am
engaged in among others it is simply shame-
ful the treatment that the immigrant re-
ceives at the hands of our courts, and I only
mention this so that you do not feel that
the discrimination is entirely against the
colored man; it is also against others, and
I am tremendously pleased that there is so
much occasion for optimism. Good-night.
THE CRY OF THE MAN THAT’S DOWN
/^H! White Man! Now the world is thine, alone;
We till your land, and care for what has grown;
We raise your children, and neglect our own;
We work, and thou dost reap what we have sown.
Oh! White Man! Think’st our time is but delayed,
And centuries of servitude’s not made
All cowards of us, suffering, afraid?
Thou’rt right! Thou has a debt which must be paid.
Oh! White Man! In the land from which we came,
We braved the storm, and sought the fiercest game;
Then were we men, and worthy of the name,
And, underneath, our race is still the same.
Oh! White Man! Thou hast, daily, greater need
Of all we do, which thee and us does feed;
Easy the task, if thou wilt let us read;
Give us but knowledge, and ask greater deed.
Oh! White Man! Give us not unheeding ears;
Our cries unheard, ’till after many years;
’Twill be a time of shattered hopes and fears;
A sombre cycle, filled with blood and tears.
Norman D. Lippincott.
(A white man of Asheville, N. C.)
BURDE
DAISY BELL’S STORY.
r | 1 HE Montgomery (Ala.) Times one
clay in February contained the follow-
ing item: “Daisy Bell, a Negress, was ar-
raigned in the recorder’s court Tuesday
afternoon on a charge of assault and battery
upon the person of Bertha Graham, also a
Negress. A fine of .$100 arid costs arid an
additional sentence of six months on the
street gang was assessed against the
woman.”
A common enough item and uninteresting
enough at the first glance. However, when
James Edward McCall writes in Sparks, a
colored magazine published in Birmingham,
the plain story of Daisy Bell and her chance
in the world, the dull police court item ex-
pands to a far-reaching and only too typical
t ragedy.
Daisy Bell is not yet quite 18. Her
mother is an honest woman who has worked
as a cook almost all her life. As a child
Daisy ran the streets and tumbled up as
best she could, for her mother hardly ever
had time to care for her. She has had four
years’ intermittent schooling in all.
She has a naturally violent temper, which
she has never been taught to control either
WHITE HIGH SCHOOL, BIRMINGHAM, ALA.
Value of building, grounds and equipment 3200,166.04. White school population, 1910, 19,810.
THE BURDEN
91
at home or in school—both places being in
the nature of legends to her—and she used
sometimes to fight in the streets. At 1C she
was arrested and sent to the chain gang for
this. She served a year and six months.
After she came home a child was born, the
father being one of the white convict guards.
Mr. McCall says great care is taken to keep
colored women and colored men convicts
apart, but the colored women have no pro-
tection from the guards. While Daisy Bell
is serving her second sentence her sickly
baby is wailing in the shanty of a poor
woman who is so busy trying to earn food
that she can no more care for it than
Daisy’s mother could care for her. and the
family history seems likely to proceed in
the same vicious circle.
Yet Daisy Bell, aged IS, untaught,
neglected, outraged, has had no worse fate
than befalls thousands of unhappy colored
girls under the “protection” of the white
man’s laws and “superior civilization.”
REFORM IN BIRMINGHAM.
\\T K have received an interesting pam-
^ phlet on the work that is being done
in Birmingham, Ala., to protect children
brought before tiie courts either for some
uu'enae or because of improper guardianship.
There is an excellent boys’ club, a cam]#
where sports are encouraged and the boys
are surrounded by healthy influences. Evi-
dently, earnest and successful work is being
done—for white children. It would seem
from the report that the number of colored
children brought before the court is rather
larger than the number of white, but appar-
ently they are left to reform themselves as
best they may, with the exception of the
few who can be sent to Mount Meigs, the
reformatory started by the colored women’s
clubs of Alabama.
Why do the colored children of Birming-
ham throng the courts and jails?' Because
only 5,240 seats are provided in the Negro
schools for 19,726 colored children, and
because of school accommodations like this:
COLORED HIGH SCHOOL, BIRMINGHAM, ALA.
Value of building, grounds and equipment $1,050. Colored school population, 1910, 19,726.
Conducted by JESSIE FAUSET
A Negro Explorer at the North Pole. By
Matthew Henson. Frederick A. Stokes Co.,
New York.
This book has a simplicity and direct-
ness that makes it very appealing. The
author knows his facts so well and states
them so succinctly that it is hard to lay the
story down until it is finished. And when
the end is reached one experiences a rare
satisfaction; for not many true stories of
adventure end so triumphantly. To start
for the North Pole and to reach it—that
is an achievement worthy of consideration!
But a very great deal of hardship and suffer-
ing had to be overcome before the grand
consummation could be obtained. All this
Mr. Henson tells without effort and without
the use of flowery language. And yet he has
a noticeably correct feeling for the proper
word and phrase. The book has some
pathos, too—not overdone—and a certain
dramatic quality, as seen in the chapter
entitled “The Pole.”
The photographs, seven in number, are
very interesting and are, some of them,
reproductions of Mr. Henson’s own work.
It is a book well worth reading.
Biography of George Thomas Downing. . By
S. A. M. Washington.
Although Mr. Downing lived for the
better part of a century, from 1819 to
1903, one cannot help wondering how, with
even all those years, he found time to engage
in so many activities. He showed early in
life the stuff of which he was made.
When a mere lad of 14 he contrived to
induce some other boys to refrain from
celebrating the Fourth of July, because the
Declaration of Independence was to the
American Negro “a perfect mockery.” From
this time on he became active in the anti-
slavery cause. He was an agent of the
Underground Railroad, an active member
of the Anti-Slavery Society and one of the
committee of thirteen organized at the time
York and took a conspicuous part in the
of the Fugitive Slave Law. He took steps
to abolish the property qualification placed
upon colored people by the State of New
first anniversary meeting of John Brown’s
death, in Tremont Temple. When, later
on, he took charge of the House Refectory,
in Washington, he became the intimate, and
in some cases the confidant of the leading
statesmen of both parties, and he was con-
sulted almost daily on matters of legisla-
tion. The place of such a character is one
not easily filled. One thinks “lie was a man,
take him for all in all. When comes there
such another?”
• m
The Terrible Meek, a Play. By Charles Rann
Kennedy. Harper & Bros., New York.
The word “awful” in its true sense seems
the most fitting adjective for describing this
drama. It is a little one-act play for three
voices, to be played in darkness. That is
what enthralls one so—the darkness, the
strange unaccountable sounds and noises, the
frightful mysteriousness of everything. And
the disembodied voices—the peasant
woman’s, the soldier’s with its cockney
accent, the captain’s, decisive as an army
man’s should be, but stressed with emotion.
The three voices talk, and the horror
grows as the listener catches the story’s
dim outline. The peasant woman’s son
has been done to death, it would seem,
hastened out of life by the law for
some indefinable fault. The captain
has received orders from some one
higher up, and the soldier has taken an
active part in bringing about the poor
unfortunate’s end. Now that it is all over,
the soldier and his captain are discussing
the painful affair. They speak more like
equals than as officer and man. The soldier
H
WHAT TO READ
93
tells with sudden, horrid pathos how the
doomed man’s clothes were divided up, and
how he (the soldier) got his boots: "Yes,
’e don’t want them no more; not quite my
fit, but they’ll do to tek home for a keep-
sake—that is, if we ever do get ’ome aht
of this ’ere stinkin’ ’ole. My little
missis’ll think a lot of them boots.”
One shudders at the gross commonplace-
ness, and wonders what is so vaguely
familiar. It is as though some far-off, dimly
visualized conjecture had suddenly stalked,
alive and actual, into our midst. Presently
an unearthly splendor fills the place. It is
seen to be the top of a bleak, stony hill
with little grass on it. Or.e stares bewil-
dered. Suddenly one knows. For the
woman is garbed in Eastern robes, the cap-
tain is a Roman centurion and the soldier
is a Roman legionary. And above them
tower three gaunt crosses, whereon hang
three men, dead, and gibbeted like thieves!
HISTORIC DAYS IN JUNE
1.	President Tyler sent a message to
Congress dealing with the suppression of
the slave trade, 1841.
2.	Geo. W. Smalley, anti-slavery jour-
nalist, born, 1833.
3.	United States recognized Uayti and
Liberia as members of the family of na-
tions, I8G2.
5. First chapter of "Uncle Tom’s Cabin”
published, 1854.
7.	Pennsylvania passed first act to pre-
vent importation of slaves. 1712.
S. The Florida Conference of the A. M.
E.	Church organized, 1S67.
9.	Bishop James Varick, first bishop of
the A. M. E. Zion Church, died, 1827.
10.	Richard Allen, who with others had
been treated with indignities in a Methodist
Church, while listening to prayers, issued
his "Declaration of Independence,” 1794.
He became later the first bishop of the
African M. E. Church.
11.	Florida ratified the Fifteenth
Amendment.
13.	Resolution proposing Fourteenth
Amendment submitted to the States, 1S66.
14.	Harriet Beecher Stowe born, 1811.
15.	Henry 0. Flipper, first Negro cadet
graduated from the West Point Military
Academy, IS77.
16.	Dessalines became emperor of Hayti,
1S04.
17.	Peter Salem killed Major Pitcairn
at the battle of Bunker Hill, 1775.
IS.	Battle of Poison Springs, 1S64.
20.	The Colony of Georgia refused to
admit slavery, 1739.
21.	James Varick elected first bishop of
the A. M. E. Zion Church, 1821.
22.	Lord Mansfield delivered the opinion
in the Somerset case, wherein it was de-
cided that a slave became free by coming
into England, 1772.
23.	Daniel H. Chamberlain, reconstruc-
tion governor of South Carolina, born, 1S35.
24.	Henry Ward Beecher, anti-slavery*
preacher, born, 1S13.
26.	Virginia proclaimed revised consti-
tution, 1902.
27.	Paul Laurence Dunbar born, 1S72.
25.	Fugitive slave laws repealed, 1S64.
29.	Virginia blamed the Kang of Eng-
land for the slave trade to the Colonies,
1776.
30.	San Domingo annexation rejected,
1S70.	L. M. Hershaw.
KO203G0 TETTER BOX____________________
NOW what we are trying to get at. We
want to know whether there is going
to be any better times in the South for we
poor Negroes or not. Here in Texas the
officers or any other white man can knock
the Negroes and kick them about, and kill a
few of them if they want to, and nothing is
said or done about it, and these officers will
arrest a Negro and put the handcuffs on him
and take him on to the jail, and, after hav-
ing him under lock and key, they will pull
out their six-shooters and beat the poor
94
THE CRISIS
Negro until he is ns bloody as a stabbed
hog, and they tell every Negro that sees
them commit these horrible crimes if we tell
it on them they will mob every Negro and
burn them together from three days old up
to one thousand years old. In the spring-
time these officers go all around to every
Negro’s house in town, as far around as they
can reach, to see who is working and who is
not, and we have not the power and privi-
lege to protect our wives and daughters and
sons and ourselves, and we have to be thank-
ful to keep from getting arrested for noth-
ing, and yet the half has never been told.
What we want you to please be sure and do
—we want you to copy from this letter and
send it in to the President at once, and be
sure to see that he gets it, so he will know
that we are petitioning to him for aid and
protection. We have sent in petitions to the
governor about these horrible crimes, but
it lias never done any good.
world with the stringy heads,” and I believe
that the time will come when our children’s
children will look with profound disgust, as
many of us already do, upon this inhuman
race prejudice. If the disgust will not be
caused by shame, pure and simple, it will be
forced upon them because of respect for the
Negro. Nothing is more commanding of
respect than to hear a people, bound by a
love caused by a common affliction, say each
of the rest “my people,” as I hear them say
here in St. Paul.	Lucy L. Uhl,
St. Paul, Minn.
Thank you, too, for The Crisis; I find it
most interesting, and inspiring, and sad,
too, in its solemn truths. But surely the
spirit of its work must tell for good, and
for great good, to the pathetic race it would
help most, and to that other race which is
so unjust, and therefore needs help, too.
Brand Whitlock,
Mayor’s Office, Toledo, Ohio.
Dear Sir:
Permit me to say a word in praise of your
cover design by R. L. Brown for this month.
I have been in the magazine business both
here and abroad for many years, and I have
never seen a more attractive cover. It stood
out conspicuously on all the news stands,
and seemed to exercise much “drawing
power.”	W. B. Northrop.
fS
Mother and I deliberately dropped our
work and sat down and read and read till
we have exhausted the contents, and ap-
plauded in very many instances, especially
in reading “Along the Color Line,” “Educa-
tional” and “Art” notes. We glory in the
editorial on the protection of the Negro
home.	Alida Gray,
Brookland, D. C.
You will please send my Crisis in the
name of my daughter. She is not quite a
year old yet, but I want to begin early in
interesting her in race pride and race jour-
nals.	A. L. Weaver,
Chicago, 111.
m
The masses of white folk still do not know
the meaning of Christianity. It is my aim
to get The Crisis to the attention of as
many persons as my pocketbook and tact
will allow. I belong to “the pale-faced
I had hoped to confine the reading of
The Crisis to our older students—it is
valuable for them and the teachers—but the
younger members of the school—sixth and
seventh grade students—have taken hold of
it. They do not appreciate it, and are only
using its sad and tragic side as matters of
sensational gossip. For that reason I must
ask to have The Crisis discontinued from
the March number.
Very truly yours,
Grace Moseley,
Librarian St. Augustine’s School,
Raleigh, N. C.
T	t
The July Crisis will he the 'Education Number. It will contain special «|»
news of colored colleges, with pictures, as well as articles of timely interest. %
The August Crisis will he Vacation Number. We want fascinating *£
fiction about colored folk. We shall he glad to pay for it.	y

%
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
95
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION for the
ADVANCEMENT of COLORED PEOPLE
OFFICES: Suite 311, 20 Vesey Street, New York. Incorporated May 23, 1911
OFFICEES
National President—Mr. Moorfleld Storey, Boston,
Mass.
Vice-PresidentB—
Eev. John Haynes Holmes, New York.
Mr. John E. Milholland, New York.
Bishop Alexander Walters. New York.
Rev. Garnet R. Waller, Baltimore, Md.
Chairman of the Executive Committee—
Mr. Oswald Garrison Villard, New York.
Treasurer—Mr. Walter E. Sachs, New York.
Director of Publicity and Research—
Dr. W. E. B. Du Bois. New York.
Secretary—Miss Mary W. Ovington, Brooklyn.
N. Y.
Assistant Secretary—Miss Martha Gruening,
New York.
This year we shall attack segregation laws, investigate lynching,
defend the Negro in his civil rights, protest unceasingly against
race discrimination.
We want 2,000 members January 1, 1913. Watch the clock!
MEMBERSHIP BLANK
I hereby accept membership in the NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCE-
MENT OF COLORED PEOPLE.
Please find enclosed...
Class ...........paying $
Name___________________
Address...........
dollars and enter my name as a
. a year, and send me THE CRISIS.
member
in
Class 1. Life Members, paying $500.
Class 2. Donors, paying $100 per year.
Class 3. Sustaining Members, paying $25
per year.
Class 4. Contributing Members, paying
$10, $5 or $2 per year.
Class 5. Associate Members, paying $1
per year.
All members in good standing have the privilege of attending and voting at the
Annual Conference of the Association.
Members paying $5 or more will receive THE CRISIS on signifying their wish
that $1 of their dues be devoted to that purpose.
PLEASE MAKE CHECKS PAYABLE TO NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF COLORED PEOPLE, 20 VESEY STREET, NEW
FOR THE ADVANCEMENT
YORK CITY.
Mention The Crisis.
96
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
'The.
National Religious Training
School an d Ck autauqua
extends a cordial greeting to the ministers of all denominations
to be the guests of the School for one week, beginning July
6,	1912, for the purpose of discussing the following and
kindred questions:
What is the moral condition of the people in your community?
Is crime on the increase? If not, what was the cause of its
reduction?
What is the sanitary condition? What effort, if any, has
been made to improve the sanitary condition?
Is the death rate increasing?
To what extent do you co-operate with the Civic Improvement
Leagues?
Has settlement work been conducted to any extent in your
community, and with what results?
What has been the effect of Temperance Organizations, and
have you co-operated with them?
To what extent has the work of the Y. M. C. A. and
Y. W. C. A. been effective in your community? Do
you approve them?
What is the general fitness of the city and country school
teacher?
What has been the attitude of the day-school teacher toward
the Church and Sunday School?
What is the real religious condition of youV people? Revivals,
how conducted?
All ministers who intend attending this Conference should
make it known at an early date, addressing the President, so
that reservation can be made for them.
The Summer School and Chautauqua of the National
Religious Training School will open July 3, 1912, and
continue for six weeks. The most complete and most up-to-
date Summer School for the Colored Race in the United
States. For particulars and terms address
President JAMES E. SHEPARD
DURHAM, N. C.
Mention Tint Cuibib.
THE
CRISIS
ADVERTISER
97
The Meeting PI ace of Business and Proficiency
HELP WANTED
AGENTS WANTED
AREN’T YOU TIRED OF WORKING AT “so much
l'':r ' piling up profit lor aotuoho'ly else? Would
you consider a proposition of going in busioeB for
yourself without any investment but your time and
talents? if so write and get our proposition.
Voung and old eari /make money with our proposition.
THE NELSON SUPPLY CO.. Harrisburg. Pa.
’Phone: Harlem, 6370
Middlesex- Employment Agency
Offers you the benefit of its experience, gained by
years of actual conduct i,{ business and the prestige
that comes from a large clientele of satisGed
patrons.
Our rigid investigation of references keeps our
standard high. Mail ord-.ri: solicited.
2229 Fifth Avenue, near 136th Street,
New York.
SEMES BATH TUB
Co»ti lilt!*, no plarahln?, re^airet httl<» water.
Weight 1./ laurel*, an<l t'-ldt into raiall ro!l.
r«ll l«.<tL t-ailii, lar Leumr than no II.U. Lajtt t--r
Writ* f*.r I^cj. U’LU '.Smr U-! 4**cri;/t>'.a. P>.»i
Hn.Cu, •’’.i/	*	* ~■ .Ti '-t, /1 Slo Tu/tiiA tut
AGENTS WANTED for the most rapid-selling Negro
sheet pictures on earth; every man and woman
will buy on sight—no talking—the pictures sell
themselves. Write to-day for free sample and
circulars.
CRESCENT NOVELTY CO.'
423 E. KING ST. BEDFORD CITY, VA.
RELIABLE HELP at all times for the most dis-
criminating employers.
Out-of-town correspondence invited.
References thoroughly investigated.
Address:
MISS I. L. MOORMAN
463 Lenox Avenue	New York
MUTUAL TEACHERS’
AGENCY
Recommends teachers for schools: secures
employment for teachers. Blanks and
information furnished free on application.
1335 T Street, N. W. Washington, D. C.
PATENTS
AGENTS make big money selling our Negro pic-
tures, size 16 x 20. “Jesus Died for Both,’-’
“Clinging to the Cross.” “Protecting Angel.”
“Booker T. Washington,” “Heavenward,’ ’ “A
Mother’s Joy,” “Inspiration,” “Mama, I Love
You." “Jack Johnson.” Catalog free. Peoples
Portrait Co., 710 W. Madison St., Dept. C,
Chicago. 111.
BE INDEPENDENT—If you are ambi-
tious and energetic I can help you establish
a profitable business of your own. I am
a manufacturer of human hair and can sup-
ply you with high-grade goods. 50 to 100
per cent, profit. Write
C.	S. STARKS
54 Oakwood Avenue	Orange, N. J.
L.	H. LATIMER
MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEER
and
SOLICITOR OF PATENTS
65 John Street	New York
Inventions Perfected, Models and Experi-
mental Machines Designed and Constructed.
Technical Translations.
Telephone 343 John	Boom 604
MUSIC
HELEN ELISE SMITH
CONCERT PIANIST
Post-Gruduate of the Institute of Musical Art
Pupil of Sigismund Stojowsky
Teacher of Piuno, Theory. Ear-training, etc.
224 EAST 80TH STREET, NEW YORK CITY
___________INSURANCE_______________
Telephone 1393 Worth
E. O. BUSSING
Fire, Life, Plate Glass and Casualty
Insurance
330 BROADWAY	New York City
•8uite 728
REGALIA
A RACE ENTERPRISE
Manufacturing Badges, Banners and Sup-
plies for all Fraternal and Church Societies.
Catalogue upon request.
CENTRAL REGALIA CO.
Jos. L. Jones, Pres.
N.	E. Cor. 8th and Plum Streets
Cincinnati, Ohio
POST CARDS
Twelve Beautiful Post Cards for 10 Cents
Consist of Love, Birthday, Motto, Comic
and floral designs. All different. Send 10
cents in silver and receive twelve most
beautiful Post Cards ever sold.
CRESCENT NOVELTY CO.,
423 E. King Street	Bedford City, Va.
Mention The Crisis.
98
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
REAL ESTATE_____________
Valuable Texas Lands
For Sale
Large tracts of farm land in the best localities
of the State for sale at very Mattering prices.
Small tracts of good lands suitable for farming,
truck, fruits and any domestic product. We have
for sale a number of large farms already in cultiva-
tion, good houses an * barns, wells, and nice pasture
lands, which can be obtained at reasonable rates.
City property a specialty. Business lots in tho best
part of the city, improved and unimproved. Large
lots suitable for factory property with switch
facilities.
No investment can be more valuable than an in-
vestment in Texas real estate. Lands are becoming
so valuable that they are doubling themselves in
value in less than a year's time. For any invest-
ment in Texas property, write T. B. Madison Real
Estate Company, 2415 Elm Street, Dallas, Texas.
To Colored People
■pOR SALE—We have houses from $1,000 to
4	$30,000. Our city is the capital of Ohio and
a great manufacturing center—plenty of work, a
good place to locate for business. Can sell you n
house for $50, $100 to $500 down, balance like
rent. For investment and speculating houses or
business places, $1,000 to $5,000 down, balance on
long time payment. Farm land prices from $1,000
to $10,000 up. Any of these are in good locations.
Write for further information.
THIS IS A COLORED ENTERPRISE.
EDWARD A. SHANKLBN
Real Estate
1218M) ML Vernon Avc.	Colnmbns. Ohio
MOVING
Telephone 4214 Greeley
BRANIC’S EXPRESS
PACKING AND SHIPPING
ANDREW J. BRANIC
Formerly Manager Virginia Transfer Company
459 SEVENTH AVENUE	New York City
Orders by mail or 'phone receive promnt attention
TRUNKS STORED 25c. PER MONTH
Official Expressman for the C. V. B. A.
UNDERTAKERS
Telephone Columbus 3935	Open All Night
RODNEY DADE & BROS.
.	Undertakers and Embalmers
Notary Public
Funeral Parlor and Chapel Free.
Licensed Lady Embalmer	Prompt Service
266 West 63d Street	Now York, N. Y.
Between Broadway and 8th Avenue
SCHOOLS
MAYERS’ INDUSTRIAL SCHOOL
BOARDING AND DAY SCHOOL
For the industrial, literary, moral and religious
training of the Negro youth.
Terms reasonable.
For particulars address
FLORA E. MAYERS, Principal
606 Payne Street,	Knoxville, Tenn.
THE SOUTHERN RESTAURANT
2229 Fifth Avenue
Bet. 135th and 136th Streets
Real Homo Cooking; Meals Served at All Hours.
REASONABLE RATES EXCELLENT SERVICE
Home-Made Rolls Served Hot
Afro-American
Correspondence
School
Offers a full Normal Preparatory Course, con-
sisting of thorough reviews in Arithmetic,
Grammar, Geography, History, Physiology,
Rending, Spelling, Penmanship, Drawing.
Civil Government and Theory and Art of
Teaching. Just the thing to prepare you for.
a teachor’s examination. Address
Afro-American Correspondence School
2808 St. Ann Street	New Orleans, La.
BOOKS
The Curse of Race Prejudice
James F. Morton, Jr., A.M., Author and Publisher.
Forceful, rational, comprehensive. An arsenal
of facts and unanswerable arguments. Invaluable
for propaganda. Read tho chapter on “The Bug
bear of Social Equality," which is a veritable eye-
opener. Thousands already sold. Agents wanted
everywhere.
PRICE 25 CENTS
Address the Author at 244 West 143d Street,
New York. N. Y.
$65.00
A value unequaled. Sold on
$1.00 Profit Margin. Write
for prices and other styles.
Send for catalog.
C. R. Patterson & Sons
GREENFIELD, OHIO
Largest Negro carriage concern in tho United States
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS
ADVERTISER
99
KELSEY’S
Human Hair Goods and
Hair Preparations
Have stood the test for years. All
the latest styles in Braids, Transfor-
mations, Puffs, Toupees, Wigs, etc.,
carefully matched to a sample of your
hair, and beautifully made. Only the
best hair used in manufacturing.
KELSEY’S Hair Grower and Dress-
ing, made of the purest Hair and
Scalp foods, relieves the Scalp of all
of the many diseases for which it is
subject, causing the Hair to become
soft and healthy, and POSITIVELY
prevents its falling out.
Puffs, Braids and Transformations,
Si up.
Hair Grower and Dressing, $1.
Send sample of hair for price quota-
tion.
S. A. & A. C. KELSEY
328 Lenox Avenue	New York City
NATURAL HUMAN HAIR
Perfect Matching of
Samples Guaranteed
We specialize in matching samples of human
hair. Do not wear black hair if your hair is
gray or brown, or curly hair, if your hair is
straight or waved. We are importers and
manufacturers of real human hair. Our
workers are all women who understand the
wants and wishes of women in this line of
merchandise. Mme C. R. Ward, whose repu-
tation for high-$rade work is well established
in New Jersey, is superintendent of our manu-
facturing department.
Quality and workmanship are in every piece
we send out. Note our prices: Transforma-
tions, $5 to $15; wigs, $10 to $50; small puffs,
$1 to $5; clusters of puffs, $3 to $8; pompa
dours and switches, $3 to $12. These prices
are for high-class goods. We also buy and
make up combings.
Dr. Hayne’s Olive Oil Pomade preserves
the hair, clears the scalp of dandruff and
beautifies the hair; 50 cents per jar. Dr.
Hayne’s Massage and Complexion Creams clear
the skin of blemishes and make beautiful com-
plexions: 50 cents a set. Discounts to agents
and dealers.
SUMMERSETT, STARK & CO.
Importers and Manufacturers
P. O. Box 343.	Montclair, N. J.
PATTERNS! PATTERNS!!
Exclusive creations of Madame M. Beck, the well-
known Dressmaker and Designer.
Begin next month.
Odessa Millinery
41 W. 135th Street	New York
Started as the first; still leading
in all advanced Parisian Millinery.
Telephone 624 Harlem
Telephone 3253 Harlem
CARPET CLEANING
Cleaners and Renovators
For Particular People
New York Careful Cleaning Bureau
12 West 135th Street
We make a specialty of cleaning and renovating
carpets, rugs, portieres and upholstered furniture;
we also vacuum clean in the home. We are not
the largest carpet cleaner in the warld, but abso-
lutely the most careful in every detail.
SHAMPOOING CARPETS AND RUGS OUR
SPECIALTY
BEAUTIFUL ART EXHIBIT
Miss Cora Van Schoick is conducting a sale and
exhibit of unusual interest at the WHITE ROSE
MISSION, 217 East S6th Street, New York.
There is on sale hand-painted china and pillow
tops, hand-made opera bags, pin cushions and
novelties. These hand creations are suggestive for
gifts and interior decorations.
’Phone 2377 Lenox
White Rose Working Girls’ Home
217 East 86th Street
Bet. Second and Third Avenues
Pleasant temporary lodgings for working girls,
with privileges,_ at reasonable rates. The Home
solicits orders for working dresses, aprons, etc.
Address:
MRS. FRANCES R. KEYSER. Supt.
Mention The Crisis.
100
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
Underwood
Standard Typewriter
The regular correspondence machines.
Models No. 4 and No. 5, are the same in
all respects except Model No. 5 has four
extra keys for fractions and special char-
acters. The UNDERWOOD is the most
popular correspondence typewriter in the
world. Its sales exceed those of any other
machine.
“The Machine You Will
Eventually) Buy."
Underwood Typewriter Co.
INCORPORATCD
Underwood Building	New York
PA MPHLETS
Published by
The National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People
1.	African Civilization: By M. D. Mac-
lean. Price 2 cents.
2.	The Brain of the American Negro:
By Burt G. Wilder. Price 20 cents.
3.	Social Control: By Jane Addams, of
Hull House. Price 1 cent.
4.	The Negro as a Soldier: By Bj-iga-
dier-Ge-neral Burt, U. S. A. Price 5 cents.
5.	Leaving It to the South: An experi-
ence and some conclusions by Charles
Edward Russell. Price 5 cents.
6.	Views of a Southern Woman:	By
Adelene Moffat. Price 2 cents.
Address
The Crisis Book Department
26 VESEY STREET	NEW YORK
PERSONAL CARDS
Ton Years with Dr. D. C. White
Telephone 7189 Morningside
DR. JAMES A. BANKS
DENTIST
204 WEST 133d STREET, NEW YORK
Porcelain, Crown and Bridge Work a Spocialty
Pure Nitrous-Oxide Gas Administered
J. DOUGLAS WETMORE
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
5 Beekman Street (Temple Court)
Now York City
Tel. 6222 Oortlandt	Cable Address, Judowei
FREDERICK L. McGHEE
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Union Block, Fourth and Cedar Streets
St. Paul,’ Minn.
General Practice	Notary Public
WILLIAM R. MORRIS
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
1020 Metropolitan Life Building
Minneapolis, Minn.
Real Estate and Probate Matters a Specialty
ROBERT B. BARCUS
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Notary Public
Office: Room 502, Eberly Block,	Columbus, O.
B. S. SMITH
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Offices: Suite 610, Sykes Block.
Minneapolis, Minn.
GEORGE W. MITCHELL
Attorney-at-Law
908 Walnut Street
Philadelphia, Pa.
Tel. 2026 Fort Hill	Cable Address. Epben
EDGAR P. BENJAMIN
Attorney and Counsellor-at-Law
31 SCHOOL STREET	Boston, Mass.
Telephone Connection
W. Ashbic Hawkins	George W. F. McMechen
HAWKINS & McMECHEN
Attorneys-at-Law
21 East Saratoga Street	Baltimore, Md.
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
101
GOOD COMMISSION PAID TO
ORGANIZERS. JOIN NOW!
HOME OFFICE:
110K Colfax Ave., South Bend, Ind.
Too, Too ! Too, Too I	Too, Too
SOMETHING NEW
The Afro-American
Order ol Orioles
With a Graduated Scale of Endowment
For particulars write G. W. BLAND, H. S. P.
S. A. KELSEY, Pres. DR. WM. J. CARTER, Chiropodist. MME. A. C. KELSEY, Gen’l Instr.
The Kelsey School of Beauty Culture and Hair Dressing
328 Lenox Avenue, New York City
Manicuring, Shampooing, Hair Dressing, Beauty Culture, Hair Making and Chir-
opody scientifically taught. Day and night sessions. Instructions given to pupils in
their own homes if desired. Diplomas awarded. Send for booklet-directory of recently
graduated students.
Make Your Spare Moments
Profitable
CJ The continued growth of The CRISIS necessitates the extension of
our field force, and we need representatives in all cities to establish
sub-agencies and look after renewals.
CJ If you can spare a few hours each month to look after our interests
in your city, we can make you a proposition that will interest you. The
work is dignified, as well as profitable.
— ■	ADDRESS BUSINESS MANAGER —
THE CRISIS, 26 Vesey Street, NEW YORK
Mention The Crisis.
102
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
HALF A MAN
The Status of the Negro in New York
By
MARY WHITE OVINGTON
With a foreword by Dr. Franz Boas of Columbia University
Chapter I. How the colored people won their civil and political rights.
Chapters II. and III. The Negro tenement and the life of the poor.
Chapters IV. and V. Flow the colored man earns his living, with a full descrip-
tion of the professions; the ministry, the stage.
Chapter VI. The colored woman, her discouragements and successes.
Chapter VII. A vivid description of the life of the well-to-do Negroes.
Chapter VIII. The Negro in politics in New York.
Chapter IX. The author's personal views on the race question.
Price $1.00; by mail, $1.12.
LONGMANS, GREEN & CO., Publishers, NEW YORK
This book is for sale in the Book Department of The Crisis, 26 Vesey St., N. Y.
YOUR LOCAL PRINTER
may be able to do your ordinary) printing, but your business and
personal stationery, wedding invitations, calling cards, pamphlets, etc.,
require that particular attention which our experience and facilities
afford you.
As first-class printers in New York City, we are subject to the
most exacting demands, since new designs and type formations must be
constantly originated to satisfy a large clientele of most discriminating
patrons.
We refer you to Mr. Conde Nast, of Vogue; n>e print The Crisis.
Write for samples and special quotations.
ROBERT N. WOOD, Printing and Engraving
202 EAST 99th STREET	NEW YORK
’Phone 6667 Lenox
Mention The Crisis.
An Epoch-making Event
An event has transpired in the South which promises great things for that
section and for the entire nation.
Sutton E. Griggs, the author of seven widely read books, has brought to light
an array of facts and has unfolded a line of reasoning in his latest work that is
quietly transforming the thought life of the whites of the South on the race
question. The book, "Wisdom’s Call," has in it the possibilities of a peaceful
revolution.
Bishop I. B. Scott of the M. E. Church says: ‘T believe it will change
conditions in the South if it is read by any considerable number of the leaders
of that section."
Dr. J. G. Merrill, ex-president of Fisk University, says: ‘‘I have heard so
much of ‘Wisdom's Call.’ I wish a copy of the book: send it to me.”
Hon. Xoah W. Cooper, one of Tennessee’s most widely known white lawyers,
says: "It is full of the finest philosophy, choicest rhetoric and Christian^ ideas.
Rev. Mr. Griggs is manifestly a great thinker, a genius and a statesman.
The chief of police of Bartow, Fla., says: “That book has changed my views
on the race question. I see that we white people have got to change our treat-
ment of the Negroes."
These are but samples of thousands of testimonials that we are receiving.
You do vourself and the cause of humanity an injustice when you neglect or
delay to'send for "Wisdom’s Call.” The price is only 50 cents. Add 5 cents
for postage.
Send to the
ORION PUBLISHING COMPANY
East Station, Nashville, Tenn.
The TESTING FIRE
By ALEXANDER CORKEY
Author of "The Victory of Allan Rutledge”
Is the Sanest Story Ever Written on the Race Problem
It is the first story ever written on the race
question, by a white man, that is not antagonistic
to the colored race.
EVERY FREEDMAN SHOULD READ IT
Through its pages runs a sweet romance, but
it is more than a love story. It is a novel of
uplift, accomplishment and promise.
No One Interested in the Race Question Should Miss It
Price $1.25 Net; Postage 10 Cents Extra
The H. K. FLY COMPANY, Publishers
NEW YORK CITY
This book is for sale in the Book Department of THE CRISIS,
26 Vesey Street, New York
Mention The Crisis.
-----A HORNLESS	G* £ 00
TALKING MACHINE lor
The one incomparable Musical Instrument at
this price, $15.00, in which the flawless tone
has been pronounced by conservative musical
critics as being the equal of many of the higher-
priced machines. In no other period during
the history of sound recording and repro-
duction have advances in the art been so revo-
lutionary. Three years ago this matchless
machine would have been cheap at $50.00. It
has a powerful noiseless spring motor and can
be wound while running. It plays either ten-
inch or twelve-inch records of any make, has
convenient adjustment of speed, a cabinet of
clear grained oak and weighs only 17 pounds.
If you want to hear the famous Bert Williams
sing the songs that made him famous, own one of these machines
and send to us for records. If you want a Columbia Disc
G rap ho phone or Grafonola ranging in price from $17.50 xto
$200.00, that reproduce living, breathing records of the golden
voices of the world’s greatest singers—Nordica, Cavalieri, Mrry
Garden, Bispham, Campanari and a hundred others—write to
us for catalog of the Columbia Double Disc Records. Bit any
machine. Music on both sides. From 65 cents up.
SffiPPAM-NOWELL CO.
Box 25, Station J	NEW YORK CITY
Mr. Bert A. Williams
This magnificent hotel, replete with every modem improvement, claims distinction for its
location; direct Southern exposure. Superlative in construction, appointments, service
and refined patronage. Endorsed by leading representative citizons.
concerts daily by the Abyssinia orchestra. Garage, bathhouses, tennis, etc., on promises,
special attention given to ladies and children. Literature aud information mailed upon
request.	J
E. W. DALE, Cape May, N. J., Owner and Proprietor
Mention The Chisis.
I

THE CRISIS
A. R..E C O f^D OF THE DARJKEH.ICA.CES
Volume F(
JULY, 1912
Number Three
7
EDUCATIONAL NUMBER
Ezcn
5
3
1 1 ZE
->
ONE DOLLAR A YEAR
TEN CENTS A COPY
	Auvery College Training Schools NORTH SIDE, PITTSBURGH. PA. A superior training school for young colored women, thoroughly instructing its students as a means of self-support in dressmaking, cutting and drafting, domestic science, music, nurse training, millinery, and an intermediate English course. This institution is under the influence of no religious denomination, is the oldest endowed chartered Negro institution in America. The accommodations in its dormitory, which is in charge of a competent matron, are excelled by no colored institution in this country. The hospital department offers the same course as the large hospitals of the State of Pennsylvania, fully equipped with its operating rooms, diet kitchen and ambulance service. The course requires three years’ lectures on general nursing, anatomy, ethics, surgery, obstetrics, asepsis, antiseptics, gynecology, pediatrics, eye, nose, throat, matena medica, therapeutics and dietetics under a staff of white and colored physicians. Catalogues now ready. Address all communications to JOSEPH D. MAHONEY, Secretary Box 154	North Side, Pittsburgh, Pa.
	
	PLAY BALL, BOYS! Last half of the ninth; bases full; score tied and “Casey” at the bat. Get in the game, boys. Organize a baseball team in your city. Baseball is the most popular sport in this country. In every hamlet, town and city may be seen the future “Rube Fosters’’ and “William Matthews romping over corner lots, batting, pitching and learning to play the game. Organize your team and get our great baseball outfit for a few hours work. Our outfit includes 10 Spalding baseball suits with name of club (any color). 10 caps to match.	«	° 10 pairs baseball stockings. 1 catcher’s mit.	Ir	rTc) 1 first baseman’s glove.	^	(\r\l 3 infielders’ gloves.	^C^l 3 outfielders’ gloves. - FOR INFORMATION WRITE THF.    ■	-- Business Manager of THE CRISIS 26 VESEY STREET	NEW	YORK
Mention Tiik Cr.isis.
THE CRISIS
A RECORD OF THE DARKER RACES
Published by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, at
26 Vesey Street, New York City.
W. E. BURGHARDT DU BOIS. Editor
M. D. MACLEAN, Managing Editor
FRANK M. TURNER, Circulation Manager
ALBON L. HOLSEY, Advertising Manager
( OSWALD GARRISON VILLARD
„ 1 J. MAX BARBER
Contributing J GHARLES EDWARD RUSSELL
Editors	J w S. BRAITHWAITE
{ KELLY MILLER
Subscription: $1.00 a year; 50 cents for six months. Foreign subscriptions, 25 cents extra. Subscriptions
to begin with current issue or changes of address must reach us before the 15th of the previous month.
CONTENTS FOR JULY
PAGE
ALONG THE COLOR LINE................................. HI
MEN OF THE MONTH..................................... H*
OPINION ............................................ 121
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COL-
ORED PEOPLE........................................ 125
EDITORIAL ..........................'......................129
THE YEAR IN COLORED COLLEGES......................   133
THE MONTESSORI METHOD. By Jessie Fauset............. 136
THE FAITHS OF THE TEACHERS. By G. S. Dickerman............. 139
THE WHITE MAN’S BURDEN. Poem. By Charles S. Nutter, D. D... 142
GENERAL EVARISTO ESTENOZ. By Arthur	A. Schomburg.... 143
PROTECTION ......................................... 144
WOMEN’S CLUBS. A Social Center at Hampton. By A. W. Hunton- 145
HISTORIC DAYS IN JULY. By L. M. Hershaw............. 146
THE BURDEN.......................................... 147
“I MET A LITTLE BLUE-EYED GIRL.” Poem. By Bertha Johnston... 147
LETTER BOX....................................... 148
Agents wanted who can furnish references. Entered as second-class matter in the P. 0. at N. Y. City
108
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
OF INTEREST TO
VOCAL STUDENTS
Tone Placing and
Voice Development
Practical method of singing- for
daily practice, based upon artistic
principles, together with a care-
fully prepared number of exercises,
forming a comprehensive, progres-
sive and se If-exp lain ed course in
voice bnilding, which constitute the
technical side of the vocal art.
From “Musical Courier,’ * X. Y.: A very practical
little book is ‘‘Tone Placing and Voice Dcvdop-
■tent," by Pedro T. Tinsley. As the preface says:
"It i* for daily practice, based upon artistic princi-
ples, including a course in the art of breathing,
structure of the vocal apparatus, hearing the voice,
together with a carefully prepared number of vocal
exercises, forming a comprehensive, progressive and
self-explained course of voice building.’’ Written
by Pedro T. Tinsley, conductor of the Choral Club
of Chicago, and a man who has bad many years'
experience in teaching voice. It contains some very
excellent material and vocal exercises, and should
be in the hands of all vocal students. Price $1.
Address the publisher:
PEEDKO T. HMS1UEY
6448 ©rend Avconc CHICAGO, H.L
or Clayton P. Sammy. 220 Wabash Avenne, and
Lyon A Healy, Adams & Wabash. Chicago, III.
“A noteworthy book of the epoch.”
The §©tmls ©3
Black F©lk
By W. E. BFEGHAhDT DU BO IS
Eighth Edition
11 It is one of the noteworthy books,
not merely of a year, but of the epoch.
Its every page is filled with vigor, spon-
taneity and spirituality.— Bouton
Transcript.
‘1A stripping bare of the moral and
mental anatomy of the African in Amer-
ica so os to reveal the naked soul in its
primitive simplicity, seared and scarred
by -ages of suffering. ”—Sew York Age.
With Author's Portrait, $1,20 Net
At book storeB or from the publishers
A. C. McCLURG & CO.
CHICAGO
The NEGRO AND THE
ELECTIVE FRANCHISE
No. 11. Occasional Papers
AMERICAN NEGRO ACADEMY
An Opinion Worth While.
“I find more patriotism and statesmanship
in this pamphlet by colored men than in
all the contributions made on the subject
by white men since the Civil War.”
A. E. PnxsBUkY.
Inclose 35 cents to
J. W. CROMWELL
1439 Swann Street. N. W. Washington. D. C.
PUBLICATIONS
A. M. E. Book Concern Philadelphia, Pa
THE POEMS OF PHILLIS WHEATLEY.
Reprint of first edition 1773; a valuable book.
Price. $1.00.
THE NEGRO PROBLEM An analysis: What
It Is Not and What It Is; by B. B. Wright, Jr.
In pamphlet form, 15 cents.
THK COLORED REGULARS. By T. G. Steward,
Chaplain U. S. A., retired. Price, $1.50.
EVOLUTION AND LITE. By Algernon B. Jack-
son. Surgeon-in-chief Mercy Hospital. Price, 75
cents.	.	,
THE NEGRO IN PENNSYLVANIA. A Study in
Economic History. By R. R- Wright, Jr.,. Sometime
Research Fellow in Sociology in the University of
Pennsylvania. Price, Paper, $2.00; Cloth, $2.50.
Address
A M. E. BOOK CONCERN
6S1 Pine Street.	Philadelphia.	Px
Atlanta University
Studies of the
Negro Problems
15 Monographs. Sold Separately.
. Address:
A. G. DILL
Atlanta University, Atlanta, Ga.
GREAT CALAMITY IN
PHILADELPHIA SOCIETY
"Who’s Who In Philadelphia”
Latest and greatest book of the season.
Biographic sketches and cuts of leading
colored citizens, with illustrations of their
principal institutions, and other valuable
information. 208 pages. By Charles Fred.
White, author of "PLEA OF THE NEGRO
SOLDIER” and a hundred other poems.
Introduction by Dr. R. R. Wright, Jr.
PRICE, $2.00
Chas. Fred White
1508 Lombard Street, Philadelphia
Mention The Ckisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
109
FORWARD
MARCH YOUR SON OFF TO
W ilterf orce U niversity
The only school in the country for Negro
Youth which has a Military Department
equipped by the National Government, and
commanded by a detailed United States Army
Officer.
DEPARTMENTS
MILITARY	SCIENTIFIC
NORMAL	TECHNICAL
COMMERCIAL THEOLOGICAL
CLASSICAL	MUSICAL
PREPARATORY
Banking taught by the actual operations
in the Students’ Savings Bank. Twelve In-
dustries, 180 acres of beautiful campus, Ten
Build'ngs. Healthful surroundings, excep-
tional community. Maintained in part by the
State of Ohio which supplies facilities for the
thorough training of teachers.
Fall term begins September, 1912. Write
for Catalog.
W. S. SCARBOROUGH, President
WM. A. JOINER. Superintendent, C. N. I.
Department.
Address all communications to
BOX 36	WZLBERFORCE, OHIO
Atlanta University
Is beautifully located in the City of Atlanta, Ga.
The courses of study include High School, Nor-
mal School and College, with manual training
and domestic science. Among the teachers are
graduates of Yale, Harvard, Dartmouth, Smith
and Wellesley. Forty-one years of successful
work have been completed. Students come from
all parts of the South. Graduates are almost
universally successful.
For further information address
President EDWARD T. WARE
ATLANTA, GA.
Knoxville College
Beautiful Situation, Healthful Location
The Best Moral and Spiritual Environment
A Splendid Intellectual Atmosphere
Noted for Honest and Thorough Work
Offers full courses in the following departments:
College, Normal, High School, Grammar School and
Industrial.
Good water, steam heat, electric lights, good
drainage. Expenses very reasonable.
Opportunity for Self-help.
Fall Term Begins September, 1912.
For information address
President R. W. McGranahan
KNOXVILLE, TENN.
Uirginia Union University
RICHMOND, VA.
A College Department, of high standards and
modern curriculum.
A Theological Department, with all subjects
generally required in the best theological seminaries.
An Academy, with manual training, giving a
preparation for life or for college.
The positive moral and religious aim of the
school, its high standards of entrance and of class
work, its fine new buildings and well-equipped
laboratories and library prepare a faithful student
for a life of wide usefulness.
GEORGE RICE HOVEY, President
Fisk University
NASHVILLE, TENN.
The largest colored college in the South.
A new department of sociology and social
service. A notable equipment in land and
buildings. Endorsed by the General Edu-
cation Board. For information address
GEORGE A. GATES, President
Mention The Cpisis.
no
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
Our Heroes of Destiny
Honorables Frederick Douglass, John M. Langston, Blanche K. Bruce, Paul Laurence
Dunbar and Booker T. Washington
This illustration is protected by copyright. Any infringement
will be prosecuted
“OUR HEROES OF DESTINY”
TESTIMONIALS
• I desire to thank the readers
of THE CRISIS and my large
numbor of friends for their
very enthusiastic support and
appreciation of the Special
Edition of “OUR HEROES OF
DESTINY.”
POPULAR EDITION
Whale the orders for the
Special Edition have been most
gratifying, there has been a
constant demand for a cheaper
one.
In response to these numer-
ous requests I am glad to an-
nounce that a Popular Edition
is on the press. In producing
this Edition there is neither a
sacrifice of quality nor work-
manship, as I was fortunate in
securing a specially processed
paper, which will defy even the
eyes of an expert in distinguish-
ing it from the Special Edition.
Th'e price of the Popular
Edition is fifty cents, postpaid.
£2FThe Special Edition, which Is on
JAPAN VELLUM, will. by no
moans, be discontinued, and those
of tho particular sort who desire
ruay have one forwarded to them for
Ono Dollar, postpaid.
INDIVIDUAL PORTRAITS
The Individual Portraits are
beautiful gravures, 11 by 14
inches, handsomely mounted
and ready for framing. Price,
fifty cents.
A partial list of those now
ready includes:
Frederick Douglass
Booker T. Washington
Mrs. Booker T. Washington
Blanche K. Bruce
John M. Langston
W. E. B. Du Bois
Paul Laurence Dunbar
Rev. C. T. Walker
Judson W. Lyons
T. Thomas Fortune
Rev. Dr. R. C. Ransom, New York City, says:
"Your splendid production of ‘Our Heroes
of Destiny’ marks the era of perpetuating
characteristic and faithful likenesses of the
famous men and women of our own race, to
be handed down to younger generations, inspir-
ing them with ideals which if carefully nurtured
in their young lives will in their mature ages
prove excellent examples of pure and dignified
manhood and womanhood.
"No home where there is a child should be
without a copy of this excellent work, and no
parent that feels the love and loyalty of higher
race development should fail to teach the
children of their homes the meaning of the
lives of these five men.”
Mrs. B. K. Bruce, Washington, D. C., says:
“I am indeed glad to say that ‘Our Heroes
of Destiny’ is the most creditable work of
art that has yet been produced of and for our
people. The life likeness of the entire group
is exceedingly good. It is a fitting memorial
worthy to be in every home.
“If we are to perpetuate the memories. of
our own great men, it must be by keeping
their portraits ever before our youth, and
familiarizing them with the true meaning of
their lives
AGENTS—Here is a proposition that will net you a substantial monthly income,
whether you devote all or spare time to it. My extensive advertising; creat-
ing a demand for these pictures, insures quick sales, and their superior quality
makes each purchaser a satisfied customer. YOU would be interested to
know how I train my agents by correspondence and make them successful
salesmen. Write for particulars.
G-a/ff 13 A	ARTIST AND PUBLISHER
• lVI. Ij/\ JL JL fill/ 1 *	322 Mott Avenue	New York City
Mention Tjie Crisis.
THE CRISIS
Vplume Four	‘	JULY, 1912
Number Tbree
ALONG
COLOR
EDUCATION.
T PIERPONT MORGAN has offered to
J * give the last $25,000 of the endowment
fund which Fisk University is endeavoring to
raise. About $135,000* remains to be
subscribed.
*3 In Philadelphia a citizens’ committee
charges that the 2,000 colored American
children of school age are discriminated
against and segregated in the public schools.
They say that not only are colored children
refused admission to certain schools and
made to walk long distances, but even in the
same school some colored children have not
a proper supply of the text books. Some,
while in the same room with other children,
are placed on one side of the room by them-
selves; others in the same building are placed
in a separate room, where one teacher at-
tempts to teach several grades; in other in-
stances the colored children are placed in
an annex which is badly located, unsanitary
and overcrowded, while the parent building
is large and well ventilated, with unoccupied
rooms, sufficient to accommodate colored
children who have been taken out of this
building and placed in said annex. The
colored people are threatening to take the
matter to court unless their request for a
colored member of the school board is
granted.
<3 The commencement honors in Northern
colleges include two colored doctors of phi-
losophy mentioned elsewhere, a commence-
ment speaker, John Arnett Mitchell, at Bow-
doin, and numbers of athletic honors.
<1 In the grammar schools’ oratorical con-
tests at Hillburn, N. Y., out of seven con-
testants Cecelia E. Gunner, a colored girl,
won first prize and Ira Smith, a colored boy,
won second prize.
<3 A chorus of twenty-six Hampton students
is making a summer trip for the purpose of
raising money for the institution. They will
camp in tents and will tour eight States.
<3 One hundred and eighty-four graduates
were awarded diplomas and certificates at
the thirty-seventh anniversary exercises at
Tuskegee Institute. Major R. R. Moten de-
livered the address and several thousand
people were present.
<3 Twenty thousand people saw the annual
competitive drill of the Washington Colored
High Schools. Company A, Captain A. C.
Logan, of the M Street High School, was
declared the winner.
<3 Dr. W. P. Thirkield has resigned the presi-
dency of Howard University to become a
bishop of the Methodist Episcopal Church.
Among those who have been spoken of to
succeed him are Kelly Miller and George W.
Cook. During Dr. Thirkield’s incumbency
of the presidency, he has secured four large
buildings, a central heating plant, increased
equipment for all departments and large
appropriations from Congress.
<3 Among the summer schools for colored
teachers to be held during vacation are those
at Hampton, Knoxville, Manassas and
Nashville.
112
THE CRISIS
<3 Representative Jones, of Virginia, lias
been seeking to have the appropriation of
$15,000 for the support of Indian pupils of
Hampton restored to the appropriation bill.
He said among other things: “I have heard
it whispered around that there were Negroes
educated at the Hampton school as well
as Indians. I wish to say in respect to
this that whilst this is true, it is also true
that the Negro students and the Indians
occupy different dormitories and are not
even brought together in the mess halls.
“The Indians have never objected to the
presence of Negroes at this school. No
complaint has ever come from the white
inhabitants of Hampton and the State of
Virginia has never withheld from this school
her bounty because Indians and Negroes met
together in the lecture halls and shops and
on the experimental farms. Moreover, in
the space of a third of a century this is the
first time this argument has been advanced
here in support of the proposition to take
from the Indians the very best educational
facilities they have ever enjoyed. There has
never been the slightest friction between the
two races in all these years at Hampton.
They are not brought together in the dor-
mitories or in the dining rooms, and there
has never beeen complaint on the part of
any Indian because of the fact that they
meet in the classrooms, the shops and the
fields.”
The amendment was lost, however.
POLITICAL.
A T the second annual session of the Ar-
kausns Suffrage League nearly 800 col-
ored men were in attendance. They elected
J.	E. Bush president and G. W. Hayman
secretary.
<3 Col. John R. Lynch, a retired paymaster
of the United States Army and former mem-
ber of the United States House of Repre-
sentatives from Mississippi, availed himself
recently of his right to a seat on the floor
at the House. The Georgia doorkeeper
wished to prevent him, but Speaker Clark
admitted him.
^ The Iowa papers are conceding that
George H. Woodson, a colored lawyer of
Buxton will probably go to the legislature.
•1 There was a single colored delegate at the
Socialist National Convention held in In-
dianapolis in May, Mr. S. C. Garrison of
Montpelier, Ind. Mr. Garrison's career as a
Socialist has been an interesting one. He
joined the party in 1897, while a minister
in-the A. M. E. Church. When holding a
charge at Muncie, Ind., he held Socialist
meetings in the Baptist and Methodist
PRESIDENT TAPT VI8ITING THE GEORGIA STATE INDUSTRIAL SCHOOL
He Is Shaking Han da with President R. R. Wright, Sr.
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
113
Churches. This, however, proved displeas-
ing to the white employers of colored labor
in the town, and the colored men, becoming
fearful of losing their positions, compelled
him to desist. He was asked to take charge of
a small colored congregation in Montpelier,
Ind., and when, owing to economic changes,
his congregation moved away from the place,
the white Socialists, whom he had organized
into a local, begged him to remain. They
made him an organizer and he was then able
to devote his whole time to Socialism. He
is organizer in the States of Ohio, Indiana
and Illinois, and he was sent as a delegate
to the convention chiefly by white Socialists.
*3 Atlantic City has decided to adopt the
commission form of government. At a re-
cent primary election ten candidates for the
five commissionships were nominated. Dr.
N.	L. Hawkins, a colored physician, was
second on the list.
<3 Both Houses of Congress have finally
agreed to submit to the States an amendment
to the Constitution providing for the direct
election of United States Senators. The at-
tempt to forbid the control of these elections
by the United States was defeated. It will
be remembered that a year ago this question
aroused discussion in regard to Negro dis-
franchisement, the South fearing that if the
United States has the right to control elec-
tions colored men might be allowed to vote.
*1 At the Democratic primaries in the Dis-
trict of Columbia it is charged that colored
voters were debarred from voting.
THE CHITECH.
A T the General Conference of the M. E.
Church steps were taken to lay before
the annual conferences a proposition permit-
ting racial bishops to be elected. The colored
delegates, being unable to elect a Negro
bishop at present, threw their strength to
the election of President W. P. Thirkield of
Howard. I. Garland Penn was elected secre-
tary of the Freedmen’s Aid Society to suc-
ceed Dr. M. C. B. Mason, who has held that
position for the last sixteen years. The
General Conference adopted resolutions com-
mending Dr. Mason’s services in the highest
terms.
*3 At the conference of the Zion Church no
new bishops were elected, but considerable
constructive legislation was passed.
*3 At the General Conference of the A. M. E.
Church four bishops were elected: Rev.
John E. Hurst of Washington, D. C., for-
merly financial secretary; Rev. J. M. Conner
of Arkansas, Rev. Joshua H. Jones of
Ohio and Rev. W. D. Chappelle of South
Carolina. Rev. R. C. Ransom was made
editor of the Review and R. R. Wright,
Jr., editor of the Recorder; J. L. Hawkins,
financial secretary; J. W. Rankin, mission-
ary secretary; J. I. Lowe, manager of book
concern, and Ira Bryant, manager of the
Sunday-school Union. Bishop H. M. Turner,
the veteran senior bishop, was retired.
<1 The Rev. D. L. Ferguson, colored rector of
the Church of Our Merciful Saviour, at
Louisville, Ky., has been selected to preach
the annual sermon before the Episcopal
Council of the Diocese of Kentucky next
year. Nearly all the ministers of this council
are Southern white men.
Q The thirty-eighth annual convention of the
New England Baptist Missionary Association
was held in Orange, N. J., June 11 to 13.
One thousand delegates attended.
MEETINGS.
'T'HE national board of the Y. W. C. A.,
-*■ under the direction of Mrs. W. A. Hun-
ton, held its first conference of colored workers
in New York City last month. Among the
speakers were Mrs. B. EL Bruce, Mrs. Betty
Francis and Miss Hallie Q. Brown. Plans
for a new building in New York to cost
$100,000 were announced.
<3 The eighth biennial meeting of the
National Association of Colored Women’s
Clubs will convene at Hampton Institute
July 23 to 27. Miss Elizabeth C. Carter of
New Bedford is president and Miss Ida R.
Cummings, 1234 Druid Hill Avenue, Balti-
more, Md., is secretary. Report blanks can
be had of the secretary. A large attendance
is expected.
<3 The annual meeting of the Iowa Federa-
tion'of Colored Women’s Clubs was held in
Des Moines.
^ A Y. M. C. A. conference of colored stu-
dents, with delegates from twenty-eight lead-
ing schools, was held for ten days at Kings
Mountain, N. C.
<3 The seventeenth Atlanta conference for
study of Negro problems was held at At-
lanta University. The printed volume of last
year’s report on the “Common School and
the Negro-American,” a volume of 140 gages,
114
THE CRISIS
TWO SCENES FROM “MIDSUMMER’S NIGHT’S DREAM”
was distributed at the conference. This year
the subject of the “Negro Artisan” was
taken up.
Q The third annual session of the Pan-
Missouri Colored Medical Association was
attended by sixty-five colored physicians.
SOCIAL UPLIFT.
N May 19 the gangplank of the steam-
ship “Flyer” broke while she was
moored at her dock in Seattle, and sixty per-
sons were thrown into the water. A little
black boy who was on the wharf polishing
shoes rushed down to the ship
when he heard the cries and,
throwing off his clothes,
plunged overboard without a
moment’s hesitation.
“I declare to you,” said one
of the passengers who saw the
thing, “I never saw such a
beautiful sight in my life as
that black - skinned little
shaver making himself ready
to save those struggling, help-
less women and babies in the
water.	Everybody cheered
him when he made his first
dive, and when he made his
second there was another	newton
cheer — but a cheer that
sounded like a choking prayer fluttering
fearfully out of a hundred appalled hearts.
He was not the only hero, of course, but some
way, when I hear of heroes after this, T
shall always have a picture in my mind of a
black youngster stripping himself and diving
into the water after drowning women and
children.”
The boy, whose name is Newton Johns,
saved four persons who were about to drown
and was “the conspicuous hero” of the dis-
aster. The mayor sought him out and
warmly congratulated him.
*1 The Louisville National Medical College,
after twenty-four years’ existence, has been
closed, not being able to come up to the
requirements of the Kentucky State Board
of Health.
<31 The Washington Dramatic Club, of which
Mrs. Anna J. Cooper is director, recently
gave Shakespeare’s “Midsummer’s Night’s
Dream” at the Howard Theatre. Mrs. Julia
Wormley McAdoo and Miss Louise Europe
helped in the production.
<1 The Southern Sociological Congress'at its
Nashville meeting declared that the congress
should plan among other
things “the solving of the
race problem in a spirit of
helpfulness to the Negro and
with equal justice to both
races.” Among the speakers
was one colored man, Dr.
George L. Haynes, of Fisk
University.
<1 The University Commis-
sion of Southern Race Ques-
tions, composed of eleven
representatives of Southern
white State universities, has
been permanently organized,
with Professor C. H. Brough,
of the University of Arkansas,
as chairman.
<•! Cleveland Evans, a colored man, nearly
lost his life in rescuing a white woman from
drowning at Augusta, Ga.
ECONOMICS.
A COLORED man is about to build a $5,000
restaurant on Druid Hill Avenue,
Baltimore.
®I The colored Y. M. C. A. building of
Washington, D. C., which cost $100,000, has
just been opened on 12th Street. Secretary"
of War Stimson delivered the dedicatory
JOHNS
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
115
AS GIVEN BY THE WASHINGTON DRAMATIC CLUB
address. The cornerstone was laid by ex-
President Roosevelt in 1907. The building
is four stories high with a basement; in the
basement is a barber shop, swimming pool
and Turkish bath; on the first floor are the
reading rooms and parlors, lodge rooms,
committee rooms and gymnasium; on the
second floor is an assembly hall, boys’ de-
partment, classrooms and offices; the third
and fourth floors are occupied by forty-four
dormitories.
PERSONAL.
X-TOWARD DREW, the young colored ath-
A A lete who defeated Craig, the Michigan
sprinter, at the 100-meter distance in the fast
time of ten and four-fifth seconds, hails from
Virginia, and now lives in Springfield, Mass.
Drew is a good baseball and football player,
and was captain of last year’s track team
and this years track team at Springfield
High School. He won for his high school last
year the New England interscholastic cham-
pionship at the Harvard Stadium, and this
year won three first places in the scholastic
meet at Dartmouth, two firsts at Yale scholas-
tic games, and was timed nine and four-fifth
seconds for the 100-yard dash at Amherst.
Representing the South Boston Athletic
Club last year in the New England A. A. U.
championships, Drew won the 100-yard dash
in ten seconds, and the 220-vard dash in
twenty-one and four-fifth seconds, a new
record for the games. Running for New
England, at the A. A. U. national cham-
pionships at Pittsburgh, he won the juuior
championship of the United States in the
100-yard dash, and also a place in the
Canadian championships at Montreal, after
being put one yard behind scratch for false
starting.
Drew has been chosen on the American
Olympic team for the Stockholm games.
<3 Theodore Cable, the champion hammer
thrower of Harvard, stands a chance of be-
ing elected captain of the varsity track team.
<3 Jackson Gordon, for fourteen years mes-
senger in the offices of the board of assessors
in Chicago, is dead.
<3 Mrs. Emeline Jones, who died June 9, was
a well-known New York caterer. President
Arthur offered her the position to cook at the
White House, but she refused; she was pa-
tronized by the rich people of New York and
was the originator of “Saratoga chips.”
<3 Thomas McKnight, once collector of the
port of Tampa, Fla., is dead.
<3 Richard Allen, for twenty-six years an
employee of the First National Bank of
Kansas City, Mo., has carried millions of
dollars of the bank’s funds. He is commis-
sioned as deputy policeman and has the abso-
lute confidence of the bank.
<3 Mr. Caseley Hayford Barrister, at Law,
Gold Coast, Africa, who has been in England
for the past two months on important busi-
ness in connection with native affairs in that
colony, is returning home to begin work on
a “Life of Dr. Edward Wilmot Blyden.”
This duty was imposed on him by Dr.
Blyden, when he visited the coast some years
ago. Mr. Hayford will be grateful to any
friends of Dr. Blyden, in America, who can
furnish him with reminiscences or any data
for this work. Mr. Hay ford’s address is
Anona Chambers, Sekondi, Gold Coast,
Africa.
THE GHETTO.
rTT HE movement to keep Negroes from buy-
ing property in desirable sections in
cities is moving pn apace. In Mooresville.
N.	C., Mr. A. Coble, who had been owning
land on McLelland Avenue for four vears.
116
THE CRISIS
started to build a house. Immediately the
town passed the following ordinance:
. “Ordinance No. 62, of the town of Moores-
ville, N. C. It shall be unlawful for any
person or corporation to move or cause to be
moved any colored person or family into any
house in the town of Mooresville, N. C.,
within the boundaries hereinafter set out,
which is not at this time occupied by persons
of the colored race, and any violation of this
ordinance shall constitute a misdemeanor,
and upon conviction such person or persons
or corporation so offending shall be fined $50
for each offense, and each and every day
such colored person or persons shall be al-
lowed to occupy any house in said boundaries
as above specified shall constitute a separate
offense.”	J. e. Brown, Mayor.
E. C. Deaton, Clerk.
May 1, 1912.
<3 In Greenville, S. C., Goldsmith Brothers,
colored grocers, bought property on North
Main Street for $65,000. Immediately the
city council passed an ordinance to forbid
the ownership of property by Negroes in
white districts. In Richmond, Va., Henry
Baker was fined $100 and costs for occupy-
ing a dwelling on Ashland Street, where
white residents predominate. Baker has
appealed. In St. Louis, Mo., the West End
Association are trying to have a city segre-
gation ordinance passed. Denver, by means
of mass meetings, is trying to stop the sale
of property to colored people in certain
sections.
Q In Jonesborough, Ark., and Clovis, N. M.,
attempts have been made to drive out Negro
lab Orel's.
<3 At Charlotte, N. C., the employment of a
Negro foreman over a squad of Negro work-
ers caused forty-five white employees to
strike.
<3 Colored railway mail clerks in the South
are objects of jealousy and attack. Recently
such a clerk was run away from Clarkes-
dale, Miss., another was assaulted at
Meridian, Miss., and later W. A. McAlpin,
a colored man, was beaten by fifteen white
men on his first run to Laurel, Miss.
<3 The colored soldiers of Fort Russell,
Wyoming, have been protesting against the
language used by certain' theatrical com-
panies; the manager of the theatre has prom-
ised to be careful.
COURTS.
HP HE United States Supreme Court has set
aside the decree of the Supreme Court of
Georgia, which enjoined colored men from
incorporating a lodge in that State under
the name of the Knights of Pythias. Chief
Justice White announced the opinion. This
decision is far reaching in its effect, as there
has been a general movement throughout the
Southern States to restrain the Negroes from
.using the names or emblems, of the white
orders.
The Georgia court based its decision on
the rules of law which protect the public
against unfair trade methods. Justice
Holmes and Justice Lurton dissented. Chief
Justice White held that there was no evi-
dence to show that the colored lodges had
injured their white namesakes in any way,
and inasmuch as the Negroes had maintained
their organization without complaint from
the whites for more than twenty years, their
membership having • attained 300,000, the
white lodges were guilty of laches and could
not be heard to complain in a court of equity
under such circumstances.
*3 The Court of Appeals of the State of
New York has decided that the colored
order of Elks cannot use the name “Elks,”
but may use the insignia, colors and ritual.
*3 In Shreveport, La., City Judge Blanchard
announced from the bench that the sworn
testimony of a Negro would not be given
credence in preference to that of a white
man, whether the white man was on trial or
not.
*3 The colored citizens of Shreveport, La., in
a public meeting set forth the following
recent cases of murder and oppression:
“The half-witted man taken from the offi-
cers in the West End at high noon, and
lynched, not quite two years ago. The man
who for years had worked for the city,
sweeping its streets, and bore the reputation
of a peaceful and law-abiding citizen, was
clubbed to death by a peace presen'er of the
law. The man killed by a conductor on the
street car. The two innocent men shot down
by officers in the West End. The man Miles,
lynched only a few wreeks ago, said to be
by unknown parties. The indiscriminate
shooting by officers for any and every cause
and the wilful violation of the Hunsicker
law.
ALONG THE
COLOR LINE
117
“How long can we follow the pursuits of
life with safety or shall we seek safety in
flight? We have waited patiently to see the
men committing these crimes brought to
justice, and their guilt or innocence estab-
lished. Our people are so often beaten and
clubbed by the officers that they are afraid
and have a horror of being arrested, and
invariably break to run and are shot down.
There is nothing left for us to do but appeal
to our white friends and fellow citizens for
better consideration.”
CRIME.
HP HE following lynchings have occurred
since our last report:
Dan. Davis burned at the stake at Tyler,
Tex.; he was accused of criminal assault on
a white woman. This is the fourth Negro
lynched in Tyler in the last few years. At
Valdosta, Ga., a Negro, Emanuel, is said
to have been killed and thrown into the river
for shooting at a white man who was not
killed. At Nashville, Tenn., J. Samuels, a
colored man charged with attacking a white
woman, was shot to death. At Salisbury,
Md., a number of curious stories have been
sent out. A colored farmhand was accused
of attacking the daughter of a farmer; then
the charge was that he had attacked her
several times, but the fact had not been
reported. An attempt was made to lynch
the man, but he was taken by the sheriff to
Baltimore. A well-known white citizen of
Baltimore writes us as follows: “I find that
the extent and excitement of the mob was
greatly exaggerated. A gentleman from the
county says that the case of assault was not
very clear; you can see for yourself there
is something a little peculiar about it.”
<1 Three Negroes hanged in Florida declared
to the very last that they were not guilty- of
the crime charged against them. Richardson,
who killed two white men in self-defense, and
whose story was told in the last December
number of The Crisis, has been sentenced
to be hanged.
<3 Negroes have been killed by policemen at
New Orleans, Savannah, Louisville, Memphis,
Florence, Ala., and Des Moines, la.
<3 White men have killed Negroes at Oxford,
N. C., Rocky Mount, N. C., Memphis, Tenn.,
Beaumont, Tex., and Winston-Salem, N. C.
<3 There have been two attempts at lynching
in New York City and another in New York
State.
MUSIC AND ART.
A CONCERT took place May 29 at the
New Twelfth Baptist Church in Bos-
ton, Mass. Mr. Mellville Charlton, the
organist of New York, presented an effective
program. Mrs. Jessie E. Shaw, a pianist,
assisted Mr. Charlton.
<3 On May 17 the Chaminade Music Club,
composed of amateur and professional musi-
cians . of Boston, Mass., presented the
operetta “A Nautical Knot.” The produc-
tion ■was under the direction of Miss Mary
Page, a colored vocal student at the New
England Conservatory of Music.
<3 At the ceremonies connected with the plac-
ing of his bust in the opera house at Cairo,
Egypt, Camille Saint-Saens, the French
composer, conducted his symphonic poem
“Africa.” The themes of the composition,
written for piano and orchestra, show the
unusual scale progression and original
rhythms of the Negro folk song.
<3 On May 27, in Chicago, 111., the Choral
Study Club of.Chicago, before a large audi-
ence, presented S. Coleridge-Taylor’s “Blind
Girl of Castle Guille” and Cowan’s “St.
John’s Eve,” under the direction of Mr.
Pedro T. Tinsley, conductor.
The soloists were Mrs. Virginia Greene
and Mrs. Martha B. Anderson, soprani; Mrs.
Clara K. Williams, contralto: Mr. George L.
Johnson, tenor; Mr. T. Theodore Taylor,
baritone.
The Husic News of Chicago gives credit
to the soloists for their excellent work, and
to the accompanists, Mrs. Pelagie Blair and
Miss M. Gertrude Jackson, who assisted the
orchestra. The reviewer writes: “The chorus
and soloists seemed to enter thoroughly into
the spirit of this cantata and the bright and
tuneful music, as well as the more serious
choruses, were sung with fine effect. Espe-
cially impressive was the closing chorus with
its sombre coloring ‘a la cortege/ empha-
sized by the majesty of the organ accom-
paniment.”
It is to be regretted that Mr. Tinsley, who
has been ill this spring, will be unable to
continue as conductor of the Choral Study
Club next season.
<3 Miss Helen Eugenia Haean of New
Haven, Conn., who finishes her course this
year at the V ale School of Music, was
awarded on May 24 the Samuel Sanford
fellowship, which provides for two years*
study abroad.
MEN or THE
MONTH
),r?L4TfMrp-^i
CHARI.ES L. MITCHELL.
r | r HE colored race lost a famous fighter in
the month of May, when Charles L.
Mitchell died at his home in Roxbury, Mass.
Born in Hartford, Conn., in 1S29, of a well-
known colored family, he went to work as a
printer in Boston, in 1853, and found con-
genial employment on William Lloyd Garri-
son’s Liberator. He worked with the great
abolitionist until the Civil War broke out,
but he enlisted with the Fifty-fifth Massa-
chusetts Regiment as soon as the colored men
were called on.
He had a remarkable record for bravery in
the war. He was camp printer for a time;
he begged, however, to be sent to the firing
line and took part in the battle of Honey
Hill, in which one-third of the force engaged
was killed. His foot was taken off by a
cannon shot, but they told the story of how,
when he was being carried bleeding from
the field, he sat upright on the stretcher to
cheer a regiment that went by to make an-
other charge. The incident was widely com-
mented on at the time and shortly afterward
he received a second lieutenancy, one of the
few colored men to be thus honored.
Returning to Boston with what Wendell
Phillips called “that added grace, the halting
which is the stateliest step of the soldier,” he
was elected to the legislature by a handsome
majority, and he was also given a post in
the customs house, which he held for forty-
three years. He took a prominent part in the
life of the city and was in close touch with
all movements for the betterment of his race.
He was one of the pallbearers at the funeral
of Mr. Garrison, and served as one of the
five members of General N. P. Hallowell’s
staff when the Robert Gould Shaw monument
was unveiled. When the Cuban War broke
CHARLES BURROUGHS
MEN OF THE MONTH
119
GEORGE E. HAYNES
out he was so active in organizing the col-
ored Company L of the Sixth Massachusetts
that his injured leg sent him again to the
hospital and he suffered another amputation,
so that he was as truly wounded in Cuba's
cause as he had been when he fought for the
freedom of the slave.
Mr. Mitchell married Miss Nellie Brown of
Dover, N. H.. who is well known as a musi-
cian and who survives him.
CHARLES BURROUGHS.
X/f R. CHARLES BURROUGHS, who was
■** ^ born in Galveston, Tex., in 1S75, has
a unique record. For three years he has
lectured on Shakespeare under the New
York Board of Education, speaking to
audiences in every borough of the greater
city’’ and achieving a remarkable success.
Mr. Burroughs had to leave school at the
age of fourteen, but that did not incline him
to give up thoughts of further education, and
he managed to enter Wilberforce University
and graduate from it in 1S97. By that time,
however, he had become convinced that his
future lay in the field of vocal expression,
and he entered the Boston School of Expres-
sion where he studied for a year. At the
beginning of his career as a public reader he
followed the lines of the familiar dramatic
type, but in 1906 he determined to empha-
size the interpretative and educational phases
of his work, and in recent years his appear-
ances have been largely before college and
academic audiences. Mr. Lewis F. Mott, of
the department of English in the College of
the City of New York, has lectured together
with Mr. Burroughs, and he wrote to the
department of education that he found the
audience, which had listened to him with
patience, got what it wanted when Mr. Bur-
roughs rose. “His readings of many pas-
sages I cannot easily forget," he said, in
speaking of Mr. Burroughs' interpretation
of “Macbeth.” “They were, in my humble
judgment, superb.”
TWO DOCTORS OF PHILOSOPHY.
rT7HE commencements of 1912 have seen
*■* two colored men receive the degree of
doctor of philosophy, Columbia University
conferring it on Mr. George Edmund Haynes
and Harvard on Mr. C. G. Woodson.
Mr. Haynes was born in Pine Bluff, Ark.,
in 1SS0. He attended the Richard Allen In-
stitute in his native town, the Agricultural
and Mechanical College at Normal, Ala., and
then entered the preparatory school at Fisk
University. He received his A. B. degree
from Fisk in 1903. He had worked nearly
every step of his educational way, but he
determined to go on and won a tuition
120
THE CRISIS
scholarship at Yale, earning the money neces-
sary for his board and lodging in various
ways. He received an A. M. • degree from
Yale in 1904. From 1905 to 190S he was a
traveling secretary for the International
Committee of the Young Men’s Christian
Association; from 1908 to 1910 he held a
fellowship of the Bureau of Social Research
of the New York School of Philanthropy
and studied at Columbia University, where
.he has now taken his doctorate with a thesis
on “The Negro at Work in New York City,”
a subject on which he is an authority.
Since 1910 Dr. Haynes has been professor
of social science at Fisk University and
director of the National League on Urban
Conditions Among Negroes, with headquar-
ters in New York City. The league is com-
posed of white and colored persons, and has
various purposes uniting, indeed, three or-
ganizations in one. It seeks to promote and
to do constructive and preventive social work
for improving the social and economic condi-
tions among Negroes in cities; to bring co-
ordination and co-operation among existing
agencies, and to develop other agencies when
necessary; to make such studies in urban
centers as may be necessary for the objects
mentioned, and last, although perhaps most
important, to train social workers. The
training of such workers in the best theory
and practice of social work is, in the opinion
of the league and its director, “the very
foundation stone for work among the Negro
people.”
C.	G. Woodson, the second doctor of
philosophy, was born in Virginia in 1875,
but he grew to manhood in West Virginia,
working in the coal mines to purchase a
home and to defray the expenses of his sec-
ondary education, which poverty had de-
layed. In 1896 he finished the course of the
Douglass High School of Huntington, W. Va.,
and entered Berea College the following
academic year. After doing a little less than
three years of work at this institution he
left college to teach, and in 1900 was chosen
principal of the high school, of which he
had been a student four years earlier. Avail-
ing himself of the opportunities for summer
work, he completed his college course at the
University of Chicago, receiving the degree
of bachelor of arts. His professors testify
that he did his work with distinction and
praise him for his honorable career. “He
has never held a position,” says one, “which
he could not get again, if it were vacant.”
Dr. Woodson is a man of unusual experi-
ence. In 1903 he was appointed supervisor
of schools in the Philippines, where he
served three years. Setting out from the
Philippines, he completed his tour around
the world, traveling in Asia, Africa and
Europe. In 1907 he was a student at the
Sorbonne, in* Paris, working in the depart-
ment of history. When he returned to the
United States he entered the graduate
.school of the University of Chicago, from
which he received the degree of master of
arts in 1908. He next went to Harvard to
continue his graduate work in history and
political science as a candidate for the de-
gree of doctor of philosophy. Having by
1909 completed the work in residence re-
quired for this degree, he accepted the
position of instructor in modern languages
in the Washington High Schools, that he
might have access to the Library of Congress
to write a doctor’s dissertation. His thesis
is “The Disruption of Virginia,” a study in
the economic and constitutional history of
that State from its founding as a colony to
its dissolution in 1861. It is a careful in-
quiry into the peculiar geographic conditions
of the State, the heterogeneity of its people,
and the' influence of slavery" as factors in
causing the estrangement of Western Vir-
ginia from the other portion of the Old
Dominion.
a
The Cleveland Plain Dealer of March 26
had the following editorial:
“One of the honor pupils at East High
School, just announced, is the same colored
girl who won the spelling victory at the
National Educational Conference in this
city in 190S: It will be remembered how
scandalized certain Southern contestants were
because a girl of Negro blood was per-
mitted to compare her talents with theirs.
Some of them were inclined to believe that
Cleveland put the girl upon the program
primarily for the purpose of embarrassing
visitors from the South.
“The publication of the honor list shows
that Miss Bolden is not only a good speller,
but a capable all-round student. The promi-
nence attained four yrears ago was won on
merit and the struggle did not end with that
triumph. The South ought to read the new
chapter of Miss Bolden’s career.”
We have honored our cover page with a
picture of this charming young lady.
“thieves ” “liars” ReadinS that section of
AND so’FORTH.	the Republican press
which demands the
nomination of President Taft, one is inter-
ested to discover that tens of thousands of
dollars are being spent by Roosevelt to buy
up the colored delegates to the national con-
vention at Chicago. Reading the section of
the press which maintains that Roosevelt
alone can save the country, it is thril-
ling to find that by the reckless expendi-
ture of money Taft is securing the co-opera-
tion of the same delegates. No sooner has
one made up one's mind as to the source
of corruption than another newspaper ar-
rives with convincing proof just the other
way.
Mr. McKinley, the Taft chairman, declares
that Roosevelt got the colored vote of Mary-
land by open purchase. The Roosevelt men
say this is “a diabolical lie,” and that anyone
who repeats it is “an‘unqualified liar.” The
Charleston News and Courier, looking on at
the fight, remarks: “Both Roosevelt and
Taft are now exerting their efforts to con-
vince the black politicians that the one is the
greater friend to them than the other. The
purchasable and corrupt delegations, which
represent nothing but themselves, have in
the course of events become the arbiters of
the convention fight. On them the issue of
the contest will depend.”
The Charlotte (N. C.) Observer, which is
a progressive paper and frequently fair to
colored men, sums up the anti-Roosevelt side
thus: “Comes the word from Washington
that the friends of Colonel Roosevelt at the
national capital were elated to-day (Satur-
day) over the report from South Carolina
that Frank J. Young, a Negro tailor of
Spartanburg, and a delegate to the Republi-
can National Convention, had declared that
he and five other Negro delegates in his
State, who were supposed to be pledged for
Taft, would vote for Roosevelt. A dispatch
from Washington to the New York World,
under date of May 4, says that a report is in
circulation there that ‘Roosevelt's backers
offered Representative Slemp, chairman of
the Republican State Committee of Virginia,
$25,000 for the delegates from his State to
Chicago.’ The World correspondent adds
that ‘the vestibule of the Roosevelt head-
quarters here at times has looked like a
Negro meeting house in the South. Eleven
colored preachers from one State were there
one day. They came in a body to learn at
first hand about the new Moses who is to
lead their people out of the political wilder-
ness.’ ‘It is estimated,’ says the World cor-
respondent again, ‘using the alleged offer to
Representative Slemp as a basis, that Roose-
velt workers have offered over $375,000 for
Southern delegates in Maryland, West Vir-
ginia, Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida,
Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, Oklahoma
and Texas.’ ”
Then, on the other hand, Collier’s Weekly,
which is ardently championing the cause
of Roosevelt, goes into details about
the corruption of the Republican “machine”
in the South and makes specific charges
against the so-called leaders, white and col-
ored, in the State of Georgia. Henry S.
Jackson, collector of internal revenue, is
president of the State League of Taft Clubs
of Georgia, and has been sending letters to
Republicans to raise what Collier’s calls a
“slush fund.” The magazine insists that
these letters are in direct violation of the
law. “For writing these letters Mr. Jackson
can be dismissed from office. With a sensi-
tive Department of Justice, it is entirely pos-
sible that an indictment would be only the
preliminary to further proceedings. The
criminal code deals with such a letter as the
first one.”
Mr. Jackson calls on the leaders, white and
colored, to go around among those “who are
under some obligation to the party and
solicit from all of them,” then to distribute
122
THE
the sums among the county chairmen in
each district “in proportion to their needs.”
His chief lieutenant, according to Colliers,
is a colored man, Benjamin J. Davis.
Collier's goes into the matter of some indict-
ment brought against him awhile ago and
says:
“Six indictments were found against
Davis, and he is still out on bond. For
years he has obtained a series of ‘continu-
ances’—that is, postponements of trial.
These postponements amount to granting
this criminal immunity. He is the most
valuable asset which the Republican party
of Georgia possesses. With these indict-
ments held as a club over his head, he can
be forced into line, he and all his State-wide
power.” And the magazine also describes
his “abject flattering of those white men he
is shaping to his own clever purposes.”
As the campaign drew nearer to the great
day at Chicago, a discussion of the manners
and morals of the colored delegates filled col-
umns of newspapers which ordinarily close
their pages to all mention of the black man
unless he has been very spectacularly
lynched. Manager McKinley said he had
“proof” that Ormsby McHarg, Roosevelt’s
campaign manager, had bribed colored dele-
gates who were pledged to support Taft. In
retaliation the Roosevelt headquarters gave
out a letter from Charles Banks of Missis-
sippi, in which he returns to McKinley
money given him “to defray traveling expen-
ses of some of the delegates.” Mr. Banks
says he has turned to Roosevelt as a protest
against conditions in his State.
“When I was in Washington a few weeks
ago looking after the new Federal Court bill
from Mississippi,” he writes, “and called at
your headquarters, your assistant, without
any suggestion from me whatever, brought
up the matter of expenses for delegates from
my State. I told him then and there, in
your presence, that so far as I was concerned
I would not accept any expense money for
me whatever. You then proposed that I
take enough for the rest of the delegates.
I stated to you that they were all men who
could get to Chicago, and you could look
after the matter; here both of you, however,
proposed that the matter be closed then, to
which I agreed.
“On my arrival at Chicago Wednesday, I
found that you, or someone connected with
you, had informed the delegates that you had
given me a lot of money for them as well as
CRISIS
myself. I am only confirmed' in what I
suspected then, and I am returning you here-
with the money, and you can do as you
see fit.
“The insinuations that I can be or have
been bought are known to be untrue and
unfounded by no one better than those con-
nected with your campaign as well as those
of four years ago. I have never asked any
of you for one cent, and never applied for
. an office.”
The Roosevelt managers regard this letter
as “proof” of their contention while the Taft
men say it is “proof” of theirs. To pay
the traveling expenses of delegates who could
not afford to defray them out of their own
pockets has, apparently, been a political
custom on both sides.
While this merry recrimination went on
the colored delegates for the most part
proved to be an unusually high class of men
and for the most part unbribable. The
only weak part about them is that the mass
of their constituents remain disfranchised
and are helpless, of their own initiative, to
remedy such evils as exist.
THE LOGICAL
WHITE MAN.
The Rev. Horace Bum-
stead, who lived in the
South for thirty-five
years teaching black boys and girls, reviews
in the Congregationalist Raymond Patter-
son’s “The Negro and His Needs,” a work
commended in a “Foreword” by President
Taft. Dr. Bumstead finds sincerity of pur-
pose in the volume and then points out a
few of Mr. Patterson’s contradictions, which
are so typical of the muddle-headed condi-
tion of even the average well-intentioned
man in regard to the Negro question that
we cannot forbear to quote them:
“Among his conclusions,” says Dr. Bum-
stead, “are such as these: ‘Put a little black
school house within sound of every planta-
tion bell,’ and yet, ‘stop Negro education
with the grammar school’—forgetting that
it is the high schools and colleges that have
furnished nearly all the competent Negro
teachers for the elementary schools and have
never been able to furnish enough. ‘Stop
the colored university just where it is,’ and
yet, ‘plant industrial schools of the Tuske-
gee and Hampton type in every black
county’—ignoring the dependence of such
schools on the higher institutions for their
teachers and managers, to say nothing of the
proper preparation of pupils fitted to enter
OPINION
123
industrial schools. ‘Keep the Negro out of
politics in the South’—without the ballot,
educational and economic opportunity are
inevitably restricted—‘until the average of
the race is at least equal to that of the
European immigrant of to-day’—unaware of
the fact that in the Louisiana sugar district,
where Negroes and Italians work together,
the work demanding the highest efficiency is
given not to the immigrants but to the Ne-
groes. ‘Do this by any means satisfactory
to the rough and ready Anglo-Saxon mind
and patch up the constitution afterward*;
and ‘lynch no Negro for anything except
crimes against women, and then be sure you
have the right Negro;’ and then, on the same
page with the foregoing prescriptions of
lawlessness for the dominant race to prac-
tice, ‘teach him morality and justice by the
example of the white man!’ ”
try at 90 years of age be felling a tree in
the forest, where by reason of his infirmity
he drops dead beneath its shock. Give him
and his kind a quiet and easy position now
enjoyed by a ‘kinky head.’
“Put the Anglo-Saxon in. They are hon-
orable; they are our blood. They helped
save this country, if saved it was. They
have made this country and will perpetuate
it. Do something for them now. Turn
Africa out and let America in. Go down
to the Bureau of Printing and Engraving
where there stands a pure white girl work-
ing day by day and next to her a black
Negro working day by day--------
“The Speaker. ‘The time of the gentle-
man has expired.’
“Mr. Roddenberry. ‘Fire them out!
Fire them out! Fire them out! (Laughter.)
If you have got Caucasian blood in your
veins kick them out.’ ”
THE GENTLEMAN
FROM GEORGIA.
The Hon. S. A. Rod-
denbery of Georgia
nobly waved the banner
of the Empire State of the South, where
Negroes pay taxes on over $34,000,000 worth
of property, on the occasion of a recent
debate in Congress. The question before
the House was whether Spanish War pen-
sions should or should not be increased, but
the gifted Roddenberv did not become really
eloquent until he struck the Negro question.
Then he said, as reported in the Congres-
sional Record: “If you really want to do
something for these good Spanish War boys
join with me and go down here to this
Pension Office and take out the Africans,
turn them out of their jobs, and give the
places to our Spanish War soldiers, and
keep them there as long as they are able
to work and labor. Let them administer a
Caucasian government supported by Cau-
casian taxpayers. When they get too old,
if they are indigent, then consider pension-
ing them; then go down Pennsylvania Ave-
nue to this massive War and Navy Build-
ing, walk up and down the aisles, and take
those black sons of the cocoanut region who
sit there with big brown drops of sweat
coming out of their foreheads, kick them
out, and put these old veterans of the Civil
War there by those tables, at those tele-
phones under those electric fans, and as
long as they are able to labor let them have
the benefit of the nation’s offices and grati-
tude. Let not the old pioneer of this coun-
WHAT’S THE MATTER “Wi^ “	ia
WITH WHITE MEN-1 the Olympic Pentathlon
trial, remarks the New
York Evening Post, “Theodore Cable, Jr.,
Harvard's colored athlete, the individual star
of the Harvard-Yale track meeting, and
Drew, the colored sprinter of the Springfield
High School, carrying off the honors in the
Yale interscholastic meet at New Haven, all
on Saturday last, it is plainly time to draw
the color line in athletics. How else will it
be possible to maintain that the darker races
are totally lacking in stamina and strength?
Then these colored athletes have a bad habit
of becoming prominent later in life.
“For instance, William H. Lewis, the
Assistant Attorney-General, whom the offi-
cials of the mighty American Bar Associa-
tion are now laboring to expel from member-
ship, used to be a star athlete at Amherst,
and was later the ‘brainiest’ center rush that
the Harvard football team ever possessed.
Mr. Matthews, who has now succeeded him
as Assistant United States District Attorney
in Boston, was a remarkable end rush, and
an equally conspicuous baseball player at
Harvard. Who knows what Theodore Cable,
Jr., may not aspire to, and what trouble he
may not make for us all in the future?
Let us scotch him now by ruling that he
should not take part in any further inter-
collegiate competitions—to discourage the
others. Since athletic gatherings, are dis-
tinctly social events, the reason to be given
124
THE CRISIS
is apparent; the safety of the white race
demands it. We are sure that the officials of
the Bar Association will ag-ree to this.”
THE SADDEST OP
REBELLIONS.
The New York Evening
Mail, which has often
stood for justice to the
black men, calls the Cuban insurrection the
saddest of rebellions. “The Negroes of that
island had a bright dream when Cuba be-
came independent. They were to be on an
equal level with white men forever. It was
chiefly their blood which had been shed for
the country’s liberty. The revolution’s
greatest hero and martyr, Antonio Maceo,
was a black man.
“But little by little they have seen their
equal position frittered away, until lately
they were forbidden by law to organize a
political party among themselves. Their
veterans were put out of the public offices
and white men of Spanish birth—even the
hated Spanish guerrillas, who fought them
in the jungle—were put in their places.
“Doubtless, we can in no way encourage
this black rebellion. It will be necessary to
repress it. Misguided and deluded, the in-
surgent blacks ravage American plantations.
Their insurrection spells anarchy and bar-
barism. But there is a streak of. sadness in
their case, just the same. The words of the
white orators of freedom, addressed to them
—‘compatriots, comrades, brothers’—are still
ringing in their ears. They belong to a
brave race, that has always known how to
die. And for those of them who fall before
their poor revolution is suppressed, we may
drop the tear that has ever fallen upon the
tomb of him who has preferred death to
degradation.”
There is a possibility of a summer normal
school for colored teachers in New Orleans,
which leads the New Orleans Item to say
that the teachers have been neglected
hitherto. “They have no institute for such
work as the white summer normal schools
carry on, and are given few opportunities
for lectures and association in study. The
Negro in the South needs industrial and
agricultural training above all things, but
there is also need of well-trained Negroes in
the professions and in general business for
the service of their own race. Naturally, at
this stage of development, there is a very
great need of the good teachers. There is
really no valid reason why the best white
teachers should not take up this work, but
there is greater need of well-trained colored
teachers.”
The Chicago Defender, a colored paper,
says that not since the remarkable series
of conferences at the World’s Fair has
Chicago seen such a significant and successful
convention as that of the National Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Colored People.
“It is safe to go even further,” it continues,
“and say that never in this country has a
conference concerning the welfare of the
American Negro been attended by such bril-
liant results or been participated in by people
of such power and attainment. All lines of
creed, race and class seemed forgotten and
all men stood as such before the world; and
an amount of enthusiasm has been aroused
in the people of Chicago and vicinity which
far exceeds the hopes of the most optimistic.”
The St. Louis Advance (colored) makes
some pertinent remarks about an appeal for
funds from an industrial school in Missouri:
“Such an institution is praiseworthy,” it
says, “but in a great State like Missouri, with
its ample school fund, such appeals should
be made to the legislature. Education in
literary and practical directions is a duty of
the State and not a charity of the citizens.”
“In a Maryland community,” says the
Philadelphia Inquirer, “a young man accused
of a heinous offense was arrested, tried im-
mediately, confessed his guilt and was sen-
tenced to ten years’ imprisonment. The
offense was committed on Monday and the
trial took place the same day under extra-
ordinary conditions to prevent a lynching.
Justice is avenged. The people of the com-
munity are satisfied. There is no race war.
The members of the race to which the
offender belonged are upholding justice as
administered. This is the sort of action
which would save this country many black
marks and would enhance its reputation
abroad.”
In an editorial the June Crisis mentioned
“the corresponding secretary” of the
Woman’s Suffrage Association as writing to
gloss over the action on the “color line” at
Louisville. We should have said that Miss
Bertha Coover, corresponding secretary of
the Ohio Suffrage Association, was the writer,
and not Mrs. Mary Ware Dennett, corre-
sponding secretary of the National Associa-
tion. Mrs. Dennett is a staunch friend of
justice, even for black folk.
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE
/jNE of the best meetings the association
has ever held was in Indianapolis on
May 15, under the auspices of the Colored
Women's Civic Club of that city. The speak-
ers were Mr. Charles Edward Russell, Mr.
Alexander Irvine and Miss Ovington. The
beautiful little Christian church was filled
to the doors with earnest colored people who
were impressed with the sincerity of the
speakers and the aggressive work that the
association has been doing. Mr. Russell,
whose opening address at the last session of
the association’s first conference will never
be forgotten by those who heard it, made
again a noble appeal for human brother-
hood. When he had finished, the president
of the club, Mrs. Mary Cable, voiced the
feeling of the audience by rising to “thank
God for Charles Edward Russell.”
Mr. Irvine told of his experiences in the
South when he went as a laborer to study
conditions among the workers, black and
white. He was sent in the interests of a
magazine, and his story of the white laborers
poverty and suffering met with ready ac-
ceptance by his publisher, but the full story
of the black laborer he was unable to place
in print.
It was an impressive and never-to-be-for-
gotten gathering, and it will probably result
in an Indianapolis branch. Two smaller
meetings were held, at which Miss Ovington
explained fully the objects of the association
and the work it is undertaking.
This month the association welcomes a
sixth branch, that of Detroit, Mich. The
branch comes in with 41 members and the
following officers: President, Mr. William
Osby; vice-president, Mr. Charles Webb;
corresponding secretary, Mr. Leonard C.
Thompson; recording secretary, Mr. A. J.
Bass; treasurer, Mr. Walter D. Johnson.
In January of this year the secretary of
the association visited Detroit and met a
group of enthusiastic, militant colored men,
who, in a number of cases, had stopped race
discrimination in their ciiy. They were
anxious to learn of the work of the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored
People, and it is these men who are the
nucleus of the Detroit branch. The associa-
tion is fortunate in securing the co-operation
of so public-spirited and self-respecting a
group of colored citizens.
On June 4, at its regular meeting, the
board of directors accepted Miss Ovington's
resignation as secretary of the National As-
sociation. “'We express,” it said, “our last-
ing appreciation of her services and devotion
and our deep sense of obligation for the
year of voluntary work which she has given
to the association and to the cause it repre-
sents.” Miss Ovington was unanimously
elected a vice-president of the National
Association.
Miss May Childs Nerney was appointed to
the secretary's position. Miss Nerney has
had large experience in executive work, hav-
ing served as secretary to the State Librarian
at Albany, and later as head of the order
department. She comes to the association
from the Newark Public Library, where she
has been reference librarian.
From time to time we have reported the
progress of the Bolin case against the Pali-
sades Amusement Park. Last summer Mr.
Paul C. Bolin, organist at St. Phillip's, to-
gether with his brother, Mr. L. W. Bolin, his
wife and some friends, went to Palisades
Park, where several of them were refused ad-
mittance. The association became interested in
the case and tried to get a criminal indict-
ment. The local district attorney was dilatory
and nothing was done. Then on advice of our
attorneys a civil suit was brought. The com-
126
THE CRISIS
2000
OUR
J 500
CLOCK
MEMBERSHIP
500
640,-JU1VE 15,1912.
UOIN US
iooo
Life members pay $500. Donors pay $100, sustaining members $25, and contributing
members $10, $5 or $2 per year. Associate members pay $1 per year. The subscription
to THE CRISIS is $1 extra, except to members paying $5 or more, who signify their wish
that SI of their dues be considered a CRISIS subscription.
Checks should be made payable to the National Association for the Advancement of
Colored People, 26 Vesey Street, New York City. All members in good standing have
the privilege of attending and of voting at the annual conference of the association.
panv saw no escape, and having no defense
promptly came to terms by paying tlie Bolins
$300 cash for damages, and giving the family
SCHENCK BROS.
JJaliaaftrs Ammu'imnit JJark
SEASON PASS 1912
VaerfA7J'/:,
TO PARK o ROU r-J D : .
njrni. end -or season uni.».ss other*i>e ordered
Ho. B	Si£nrd
i-:'.;nvLLr not tkaksfknai if
Sm Oilu, S-i.
THE BANNER OF VICTORY
a free pass for the season. If there is any
further color discrimination at Palisades
Park we should be glad to hear of it.
At the National Conference of Charities
and Correction at Cleveland our association
occupied an afternoon. Engineers’ Hall was
filled with 500 listeners who heard President
Thwing, of Western Reserve University,
Judge Mack, president of the conference, Mr.
Charles W. Chesnutt, Miss Ovington and Dr.
Du Bois. There seems to be a good chance
of starting a branch of the association in
Cleveland.
We have brought the clock this month from
our advertising pages to our association
notes that all may see our progress in secur-
ing new members and the road we have to
travel before January 1, 1013. Will not our
friends throughout the United States help
our minute hand to move more rapidly from
month to month?
After this, look for the clock in the adver-
tising section.
On May S the chairman of the board of
directors sent tlie following telegram to the
governor of Louisiana:
New York evening papers report that Negro
flood refugees are being compelled to work on
the levees by your order without pay. May we
ask you to confirm, deny or explain this report!
If true, will you explain under what law this
action is taken?
The National Association fok tiie
Advancement of Colored People,
Oswald Garrison Villard, Chairman of the
Board of Directors.
THE N.
A- A. C. P.
127
The governor replied as follows:
Bacon Rouge, La., May 9, 1912.
Oswald Garrison Yillard. Chairman Board of
Directors, National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People, 20 Vesey
Street, New York:
In reply to yonr telegTam of eighth, all able-
bodied men in refugee camps, regardless of
color, are given the option of working and eating
or doing neither. Thousands of citizens, in-
cluding myself, are working day and night,
actually on the levees, voluntarily without pay,
trying to hold the dood area down to a mini-
mum. The resources of the State are being
strained to their utmost to save lives and prop-
erty and care for the refugees, nine-tenths of
whom are Negroes. New homes are being pro-
vided for all refugees’ families who care to
take advantage of the opportunity.
J. E. Sanders,
Governor of Louisiana.
Considerable publicity was given the two
communications, and the chairman of the
board received some severe censure from the
Southern press. The Houston (Tex.) Daily
Post says:
The situation in Louisiana is one that is
taxing all the resources of the people to S3ve
the State from further disaster. Already the
property and crop losses are tens of millions
of dollars and tens of thousands of people are
rendered homeless. The majority of these are
Negroes. Their homes are gone, they are with-
out money and they are dependent upon public
funds and charity for food. In the strenuous
effort to save the State from* additional loss,
the governor and those in charge of the work
have the right to expect and demand the aid of
every able-bodied man. and the able-bodied
Negro or white man who refuses to work ought
to be compelled to work under the circumstances.
There are rimes when men must work with
no thought of pay. Immediately following the
Galveston disaster there was work to be done
which involved the lives of the men. women and
children who survived the flood, and the men
who were being cared for were required to do
it, just as able-bodied refugees are required to
work in Louisiana in a crisis, just as acute.
Under the circumstances, we think Mr.
Yillard’s inquiry of the governor of Louisiana
was insolent.
The New Orleans State gives the follow-
ing account of Baton Rouge conditions:
Baton Rouge has been confronted with a
flood of unprecedented proportions and has been
making a supreme struggle to hold the river
within bounds. All the available convicts of the
State have concentrated there to aid in it. But
the task has been of such magnitude that the
university cadets, public officials and citizens of
every station in life have also had to contribute
their services, both day and night, and have
done so cheerfully and enthusiastically. Many
of the refugees have gladly taken their posts
for the good of all. It would be a mockery
if others, of a thriftless character, were per-
mitted to enjoy the hospitality of the commun-
ity without rendering some service in the crisis
or if they were put on payrolls while the great
bulk of the people worked for nothing.
The governor is well within the bounds of
truth when he says that nine-tenths of the
refugees are of the colored race. The sub-
merged sections of the State are chiefly those
of cotton and sugar plantations on which large
forces of Negroes are employed, parishes in
which the colored population is many times that
of the white, and most of Federal and local
relief has been to relieve the distress of the
race Mr. Yillard is seeking to advance.
Louisiana has made no distinction of color
in its relief or rescue work. When Selma levee
broke 5,600 people were rescued in a few days
by the exp-editions organized by leading citizens
of Louisiana and Mississippi. Many were in
great periL Unusual heroism was, in many
instances, displayed by the rescuers. Yet, over
5.000	of the number who were removed to
safety in the flrst few days and then clothed
and fed were colored people.
Any attempt, therefore, to represent
Louisiana as harsh or unjust to the unfortunate
Negro victims of these flood conditions is slan-
derous. and local members of the race ought to
take it upon themselves to present the true facts
to Mr. Oswald Garrison Yillard and his per-
turbed associates so that the American people
may know the true facts.
On the other hand, information of a diiier-
ent character has come to the association
from colored people. We quote in part
three letters :
Editor of The Crisis:
I shall do my best to furnish you with all
the information I can gather about the flood
situation, and if it is possible I shall secure
pictures of the refugee camps of both the white
and colored suff’erers. I fear, however, it will
not be an easy task, in view of the fact that the
Louisiana authorities are discouraging, if not
actually by order forbidding, the giving out of
the whole truth of the situation, especially as
concerns the coloiei people. *	*	* The
authorities do not like the idea of letting the
outside world know what the Mississippi floods
do at times to people living in the delta
of the State—it being regarded as ;*bad
advertisement.?
And a later letter of May 15, from the
same correspondent, goes on to say:
There are probably 50,000 people driven
from their homes by the Torras crevasse, and
the refugees of the flooded lands, from all ac-
counts received from trustworthy sources, are, in
the cases of the colored people, a piteous lot.
In the camps of the colored dood sufferers in
the city or’ Baton Rouge, where there are in the
neighborhood of 6,000 of them, in mauv eases
without enough clothes on to present themselves
in public, the shame and suffering of the
refugees cannot be described. Thev are camped
in the colored churches, colored halls and in a
128
THE
CRISIS
word, in any place that will give them shelter
at night. Hundreds are together in buildings
with nothing to lie upon but the bare floors,
and nothing to cover with but the scanty clothes
they are in all day. Their food is scant and
many of the children are often crying for some-
thing to eat, while their lathers are away work-
ing for their own rations ou the levees uuder
the rule, “no work, no ration,’’ which has been
made strict, especially in the case of the col-
ored refugees in the camps.
Many of the refugees will never return to
the flooded territory. It is declared that the
floods have been “blessings in disguise” to a
large number of the refugees, in that the waters
brought them where they had no easy way of
coming in safety otherwise, on account of the
opposition any attempt on their part to leave
for better conditions always met. They could
not get away before the flood came, and, as it
were, rescued them; but now that they are away
and the old “debt charge” cannot restrain
them, they intend never to go back.
The white refugees in Baton Rouge are be-
ing cared for in the asylums, public buildings
and the best places obtainable for their com-
forts, and the work done by the men folk con-
sists mainly in overseeing the working Negroes
and acting as guards on the levees in place of
the militia which has been withdrawn.
Many of the colored churches and societies
in New Orleans are making appropriations for
the relief of the Negro flood sufferers, the
amounts varying from $5 to $25. The colored
people hope in this way to alleviate much of the
suffering of the unfortunates. In Alexandria
and other towns of the State the colored people
are taking' the same kind of steps to help the
sufferers. After the floods, when all will be
free to talk, •will be the best time to get the
whole truth of the present flood situation. Rev.
E. D. Sims is chairman of the colored flood
committee, the other members being Rev. A.
Hubbs, A. Richard, J. Johnson and J. Grandi-
son. Altogether, they carried 10,000 garments
to the flood sufferers at Baton Rouge.
N. B.—If you make use of this, do not let
my name appear, as it might be used to annoy
me.
The third letter runs as follows:
Mr. Villard:
I am sending this letter to New York to be
mailed to you from there. Should you speak of
this letter through the papers please don’t men-
tion my name, as I am even afraid to mail it to
you from here, as it would be opened as soon as
they saw your name, as publications are cen-
sored before printed in regard to the conditions
here.
Mr. Oswald Garrison Villard,
20 Vesey Street, New York City.
Dear Sir:
I noticed in the afternoon paper published
here that you have been making inquiries in
regard to the working of the refugees who have
sought safety here from the flooded parishes of
this State. I am truly glad that some have
interested themselves enough to venture thus far
in the matter, and perhaps I can give you some
information, as I am a resident.here and know
the conditions that exist. Now, so far as the
working of colored men is concerned, they have
been working any colored man they saw in the
streets several days before a single refugee came
to Baton Rouge. Men were arrested and put
to work without pay, and any man—I mean
colored man—who had no work was taken to
the levee gang captain, and made to work with-
out pay or food; while white men who never
worked were crowding the river banks acting
as guards to keep them there. Now these poor
unfortunate refugees, who have come here fam-
ished and exhausted from exposure, from bat-
tling with the flood, half naked and sick, are
immediately put in charge of a guard with a
gun and sent to work throwing up embankments
and levees, given some salt meat and com bread
which the United States Government provides
for them. They toil until exhausted and are
taken back to camp for a few hours and then
brought back again to work.
Not only here in Baton Rouge does this
exist, but’at Fort Hudson, Shreveport, Natchez
and all along the river men are made to do this
same work that the Government has made ap-
propriations for. Colored men are forced to do
it for nothing at the point of a bayonet; boys
ranging from 15 to 18 years old have charge of
gangs of men. They carry a gun to intimidate
and scare them, and they are driven like so
many beasts. Don’t believe any of that rot
about white men being put to work there; they
are driving “Niggers,” as they say it here.
Something should be done, if possible, for
these unfortunate creatures, who have lost home
and all their belongings, and in many cases
their families. The colored people here have
responded very generously and have given shel-
ter to several thousands; every available hall
and place of shelter has been turned into a
camp for them. On Monday night, at Wesley
Chapel, in thirty minutes $120 was taken up for
the relief of the babies and larger children,
there being something over 300 of them in the
various camps. Everything possible is being
done for the comfort of the women and children,
while the men must slave on the levees for
nothing. I guess I have written about as much
as I can at present, so I shall close.
--------------- )
Baton Rouge, La.
P. S.—Should you answer this, address me
in plain envelope.
B
THE CRISIS FLOOD FUND.
The publishers of The Crisis will be glad
to receive contributions for the victims of the
flood and to see to it that this relief is dis-
tributed to those most in need. We do- not
pretend to know the whole truth in regard
to this situation, but we are certain that the
real story of the wretchedness, suffering and
oppression is yet to be told.
EDITORIAL
i
L/f ur.Mfft.
■nnnnininnmuHnnnminnnnmnnmmininmn»mnmnnnnni_
POLITICS.
HE Southern delegates to
the national Republican
nominating convention
are causing the quad-
rennial hurrah: ‘‘They
represent nothing;”
“they are- venal;" “they ought to be
eliminated;" all this we hear on every
side. But of the one natural remedy we
hear little. That remedy is: let the black
delegates represent in reality the black
disfranchised millions whom now they
represent on paper. The wonder is to-
day that the fifty colored delegates are
as good a body of men as they are with
so few of the heelers and gangsters.
Yet the disreputable are among them, as
we all know, and to get rid of them let us
have real democracy in the South. En-
franchise the blacks and let them learn
to weed out the rascals whom white poli-
ticians now appoint to represent the
Negro race.
But Southern Negroes do vote, say
some.
To the honest seeker for light the
puzzling thing about the Southern
situation is the absolutely contra-
dictory statements that are often made
concerning conditions. For instance,
the New York Evening Post was some
time ago taken to task by the Nor-
folk (Va.) Landmark for assuming that
Southern colored men are largely dis-
franchised. The Virginia paper says:
“No Negro in Virginia can be kept from
voting, provided he measures up to the
same requirements for the exercising
of that right that the white man must.
The laws of the State will protect him
in the right should election officials deny
it him. That Negroes in this State may
freely qualify to vote is fully attested
by the fact that thousands of them do
vote." Again the New Orleans Picayune
declared with regard to the complaint
of disfranchisement: “The arrant and
absolute falsity of the specification in
regard to the ballot is seen in the fact
that every legal bar to the exercise of
the ballot applies to whites and Negroes
alike. Every elector (voter) must
either be able to read and write or, in
case of illiteracy, he must pay taxes on
ordinary assessable property of the mini-
mum value of $300. These laws are
strictly in accordance with the require-
ments of the Constitution of the United
States, and have been so pronounced
by the courts."
Just so in earlier days before legal
disfranchisement paper after paper and
orator after orator declared that the
Negro could and did vote without let or
hindrance.
Despite this every intelligent person
in the United States knows that these
statements are false. The Southern
testimony to this is itself open and con-
vincing. Not only have we Mr. Till-
man's frank and picturesque testimony
on the past, but the Richmond Leader
says that all is well in Virginia “since
we disfranchised the Negro;" Congress-
man Underwood of Alabama says the
Alabama Negro ‘ ‘ does not count for any-
thing politically" in that State; a promi-
nent judge on the Mississippi bench
says: “The Negroes in Mississippi do
not vote and should not;" and in
Louisiana it is a matter of plain official
record that of over 150,000 Negro males
130
THE
CRISIS
at least 21 years of age, of whom nearly
70,000	could read and write, there were
in 190S only 1,743 registered as voters
and these were disfranchised by the
“white primary’ ’ system. In the face
of these facts does it pay deliberately to
misrepresent the truth?
“Oh, well,” sighs the reader, “it is
too bad for colored folk.” But is it
bad for colored folk only ? The St.
Louis Globe-Democrat said in 1911:
“In electing last fall nine congressmen,
all Democrats, according to the auto-
matic system, Alabama cast a total vote
of 96,303, an average of about 10,700
votes to a district. The last census gives
Alabama a population of 2,138,093.
Only one Alabaman in twenty-two goes
to the polls. In Northern States the
average of voters in proportion to popu-
lation is one in five. An examination of
the vote of the Alabama congressional
districts in detail is interesting. In six
of the nine districts the Democratic can-
didate ran without opposition, and in
one of these less than 6,800 votes were
cast. In the district of Mr. Underwood,
Democratic leader in the House, the total
of votes was but 10,114. In Mr. Under-
wood’s district also the proportion of
voters to population is only one in
twenty. "Why the great preponder-
ance of absentees? The disfranchised
colored vote accounts for only a part.
More than half the white voters
of Alabama also are disfranchised some-
how, or else disfranchise themselves.”
Of such material are the foundations
of this republic.
m
FRAUD AND IMITATION.
S the colored people be-
come more and more
a self-conscious, self-
directing group, with
organs of intelligence
and moving representa-
tives, it is becoming difficult to deceive
them as to men and movements. On the
other hand, there is still opportunity for
unscrupulous colored men to play on the
ignorance of the white world as to what
is going on in the colored group. If a
man announces himself to be of a cer-
tain position in the white world, he is
immediately looked up carefully. But
the colored impostor is taken on blind
faith and his lies and peculations when
discovered are credited to the whole
black race. In Atlanta there is a col-
ored preacher who is making a living
and some notoriety by vilifying his
people; he has been repudiated by his
own church and school, but has an insti-
tution of lids own which he is promoting.
His latest bid for white Southern sup-
port is this:
4 ‘ Our training in the college, university
and grammar school has been tfio much
of the theoretical, showy kind, more for
name than reality. How many of our
boys and girls, who are said to be well
educated, are almost helpless for the
reason that they can do nothing that
really pays or that somebody wants
done. This is illustrated by the large
army to be seen at our depots, pool-
rooms and street cornel's in the red-light
districts of the communities and cities
where we are so largely congested.”
This is a contemptible lie. The grad-
uates of Southern Negro schools and
colleges are not loafing in the “red-
light” districts and this man knows it.
But what difference does that make so
long as the white world of Atlanta
praises him, uses his words to traduce
and cripple worthy colored schools, and
gives him letters with which to raise
money from gullible Northerners for
an institution that exists chiefly on
paper?
Another method of deception has been
discovered in promoting conventions.
There is a National Association of
Teachers in colored schools, which is
now nine years old. Seeing its success,
some colored men in Kansas City have
been promoting in the last two years a
“Negro National Educational Con-
gress.” They have advertised widely,
EDITORIAL
131
induced governors to appoint “dele-
gates” and sought to make it appear
that they had the support of some body
of worthy teachers.
In fact they are nothing but a private
set of promoters, many of whom are said
to be of doubtful reputation, and not one
of them of any considerable standing
in the colored educational world. Their
“convention” at Denver last year barely
missed being a fiasco, and we trust that
the worthy colored citizens of St. Paul
will see to it that this “convention”
does not parade in that city under
false colors, and bring ten million
people into contempt.
SI
ORGANIZED LABOR.
HE CRISIS believes in or-
ganized labor. It real-
izes that the standard of
living among workers
has been raised in the
last half century through
the efforts and sacrifice of laborers
banded together in unions, and that all
American labor to-day, white, black and
yellow, benefits from this great move-
ment.
For such reasons we carry on our
front cover the printer’s union label to
signify that the printing and binding of
this magazine is done under conditions
and with wages satisfactory to the
printers’ union.
We do this in spite of the fact, as well
known to us as to others, that the “con-
ditions satisfactory” to labor men in
this city include the deliberate exclusion
from decent-paying jobs of every black
man whom white workingmen can ex-
clude on any pretense. We know, and
all men know, that under ordinary cir-
cumstances no black artisan can to-day
work as printer, baker, blacksmith, car-
penter, hatter, butcher, tailor, street or
railway employee, boilermaker, book-
binder, electrical worker, glass blower,
machinist, plumber, telegrapher, electro-
typer, textile worker, upholsterer, stone
cutter, carriage maker, plasterer,.mason,
painter—or at any other decent trade,
unless he works as a “scab,” or unless
in some locality he has secured such a
foothold that the white union men are
not able easily to oust hijn.
This policy is not always avowed
(although there are a dozen unions affili-
ated with the American Federation of
Labor who openly confine admission to
“white” men), but it is perfectly well
understood. Some unions, like the
printers and the carpenters, admit a lone
colored man here and there so as to
enable them the more easily to turn
down the rest. Others, like the masons,
admit Negroes in the South where they
must, and bar them in the North where
they can.
Whatever the tactics, the result is the
same for the mass of white workingmen
in America; beat or starve the Negro out
of his job if you can by keeping him
out of the union; or, if you must admit
him, do the same thing inside union
lines.
What then must be the attitude of the
black man in the event of a strike like
that of the white waiters of New York?
The mass of them must most naturally
regard the union white man as their
enemy. They may not know the history
of the labor movement, but they know
the history of white and black waiters
in New York, and when they take back
the jobs out of which the white waiters
have driven them, they do the natural
and sensible thing, howsoever pitiable
the necessity of such cutthroat policies
in the labor world may be. So long as
union labor fights for humanity, its mis-
sion is divine; but when it fights for a
clique of Americans. Irish or German
monopolists who have cornered or are
trying to corner the market on a certain
type of service, and are seeking to sell
that service at a premium, while other
competent workmen starve, they deserve
themselves the starvation which they
plan for their darker and poorer fellows.
132
THE CRISIS
THE THIRD BATTLE OF BULL RUN.
T is just south of Manassas
where Beauregard had
his supplies, and east of
the first two battlefields,
with their ghastly relies
and calm and guardian
mountains.
This third battlefield is dotted with
buildings green and red. A little flying
engine pants continuously with its water
burden, and to and fro pass dark grace-
ful girls and sturdy brown-faced boys.
There are green lawns and little trees,
and westward in a hidden grotto, a grove
green golden, echoing with the voices of
new graduates long gone. The dull
crimson building in the midst—How-
land Hall—stands sturdily with a cer-
tain quietude, flinging a long, low wing
modestly behind it, where sprites and
gnomes and fairies dart in and out and
to and fro in busy work.
Southward the girls are clustered,
northward the boys, and round about
are teachers’ families often new founded
with new and cunning babies, albeit one
and the prettiest had fled, suddenly, and
left a sorrow underneath the trees.
Teachers there are, varicolored, sunny
and sad, but quiet all, busy and happy,
eager and glad. With them and not
above them is the principal with his boy
face and his wife who has wings—wings
finely frayed with beating at the bars of
life—but wings withal, and in her eyes
dreams.
But the battle? Ah, yes, the battle,
the third and blood-bought battle of this
winding brook that whimpers ’twixt the
mountains and the sea; the blood of
wounded souls lies along the gold green
of that campus—the hail of the iron
that enters thuds through the thick dark
skins. Now and then the bitter stifled
wail of - the dying breaks the sudden
stillness, then the ranks close and the
school moves on.
It’s costly, this fighting. Costly in
blood and men, costly in money, costliest
in worry and apprehension. Each year,
each month, the Forager goes North:
“A man to see you, sir.”
“Who?” snorts Wall Street, wheeling
in his chair.
“Colored man—begging, I think, sir.’’
“Another Nigger school! Give him
$5 and send him on.”
And the Forager pockets his shame
and moves wearily to the West.
“Yes’/ Well, I’m giving so much to
colored people already—what is this
school ?”
“Manassas Industrial School? Yes.
And for colored youth? Yes? I never
heard of it. I give to things I hear of—
Battle? I thought the war was over;
it isn't. How sad. Good-day.”
Thus in drippings of the rich and
pennies of the poor each year $18,000
is raised to dig the trench and fire the
fuse and strengthen the soul in this third
struggle at Manassas.
Who is fighting? North and South,
black and white, rich and poor? Oh, no
—more primal, more stupendous is this
struggle of worlds; light and leading and
industry against darkness and hate and
the Devil-of-things-that-be. And who
wins? God wins—or is ever about to
win, if only the Forager staggers home
with the food to feed the weary watchers
in the trenches, the black-sweated fight-
ers in the fields. Pity the Forager, ray
brothers, and hold up his hands!
Sunset on the battlefield, and the hard
breathing of them that rest from their
labors; to the West, glory; to the East,
the moon; between, shadows of things
that were and are to be; around, a rose-
grown porch, the patter of little feet,
Woman - with - wings, Man - who - is-
ever-young, and laughter.
Up from the earth come voices, heavy
with sorrow:
”0 brother you must bow so low,
“O brother you must bow so low,
“For long is the way to the ever
bright world,
“Let the Heaven light shine on me!”
And so on till we sleep; in our
ears the soft low panting of the engine
catching its breath; in our eyes the ever-
lasting stars.
The Y
ear m
With portraits of their
honor students
T^EPORTS to The Crisis
from twenty colored in-
stitutions of higher training
reveal some interesting facts.
They represent $4,997,SOO
worth of property and land,
but they have only $1,664,000
in invested endowment. In
these colleges there were last
year 991 students of full col-
lege rank, and of these 163
graduated in June with the
bachelor's degree.
Six of the colleges have finished new
buildings during the year: the new engineer-
ing building at Howard which cost $23,000;
the new Hubbard Hospital at Walden cost-
ing $45,000; at Atlanta Baptist College a
chapel and office building, costing $40,000;
at Wilberforce a girls' cottage, costing
$40,000; a dormitory at $2S,000 and a dining
hall at $14,000 at the State College of South
Carolina, and a small administration build-
ing at Hartshorn.
Lincoln has a newly endowed professorship
of physics, and has been recognized as an
accredited college by the State of Pennsyl-
vania. Talladega has a new professor of
social extension work ; Benedict, a new presi-
dent ; while Mr. B. G. Brawlev leaves the
chair of English at Howard to become dean
of Atlanta Baptist College.
After all, our interest in these institutions
is personal and centers most hi the student
bodv. We have asked all these colleges to
ACADEMIC PROCESSION, HOWARD UNIVERSITY
134
THE CRISIS
JAMES BOND. Knoxville
MISS F. JONES, Knoxville
J. M. SAMPSON. Virginia Union
send us the photographs of the ranking
scholars of their graduating college class.
The result is the group of faces looking out
on the reader from these pages; strong, bright
young folk who have demanded the light
and received it in spite of the opinion of
President Taft. Here are the “spoiled plow-
hands” of Southern tradition and the top-
heavy “eduealed-out-of-their-place” youth of
newspaperdom! As a matter of fact here
are a group of healthy, bright-eyed, clear-
brained young folk of Negro descent, who
are going to make the cheating, lynching and
oppression of black folk more difficult in the
future than in the past. Hinc iliac
lacrimae!
These are the leaders who in scholarship
head the colored college host: David, of
Wilber force; Latson, of Atlanta Baptist Col-
lege; Douglass, of Lane; Rice and Miss
Bothwell. of Atlanta University; Jessell and
Miss Hamilton, of Talladega; Sampson, of
Virginia Union; Berry, of Lincoln; Bond
and Miss Jones, of Knoxville; Lovette and
Miss R. Jones, of Fisk. We add Edith
Louise Wright, who is valedictorian in the
West High School for 100 classmates, all
white, and Isabella Vandervall, who gained
the $50 freshman prize at the New York
Medical College. If the photographs had
arrived in time, we should have added to
these Miss Brown, of Morgan; Miss Floyd,
of Spelman; Pinson and Miss Thomas, of
Benedict; Miss Gray, of Paine, and several
ol hers.
Besides the twenty colleges mentioned
above, there are twelve other institutions that
give college training to colored students,
making thirty-two in all, enrolling 1,200
students.
In former days the argument against
such students and such training was that
colored people could not assimilate such
training. That argument has passed, but in
J. W. RICE, Atlanta
ALBERT B. LOVETTE, Fisk
D. J. JESSELL, Talladega
THE YEAR IN COLORED COLLEGES
135
T. G. DOUGLASS, Lane
MISS S. E. HAMILTON, Talladega
E. O. BEEEY. Lincoln
iis place is a widespread belief that there
is no “demand** for such persons, and that
they are unable to earn a living.
There have been, in the years 1523-1912.
over o.OOu Negroes graduated from college.
Reruns for a	thousand living	graduates
indicate the following occupations:
Teachers ....................545c
Preachers ...................20
Physicians ..................07^
Lawyers .....................04^7
Business and other occupations.lo^c
As teachers the college-bred Negroes have
made the Negro industrial school possible.
Tuskegee is directed by them in nearly all
positions of importance, from the wife of the
principal (Fisk. *S9 j down. At Hampton.
Calhoun. Kowaliga.	and a	score	of other
schools, the colored college man has given
invaluable service. As leaders in social up-
lift the Negro collegians have been especially
valuable.. Why, then, are they the object of
so much criticism and iuueudo - Apparently
because white Americans fear them. We do
not fear Negro criminals—rather we encour-
age them. We do not fear ignorance—we
invite it. But trained knowledge and erh-
ciency in this subject race is instinctively
dreaded by a large number of people. Presi-
dent Taft said yesterday at Hampton:
“Although education along scientific lines is
useful, vocational education for the Negro
is better, for the present at least:*’ but ••voca-
tion^* is a large word. What vocations does
the President have in mind? The vocation
of citizen, voter, molder of public opinion?
Probably not. He is thinking with the
Memphis Xews-Scimitar. which says:
“Higher education fads find no place in
the curriculum of the Memphis High School
for Negroes. The whole policy is to traiu
the Negro youths of both sexes in occupa-
tions which the South has accorded almost
entirely to the race.'* #
In other words, the principal vocation in
E W. LATSON, Atlanta Baptist MISS A. L. BOTHWELL, Atlanta
G. F. DAVID. Wilberforce
136
THE CRISIS
MISS E. L. JONES, Fisk
MISS EDITH WEIGHT
Cleveland High School
MISS ISABELLA VANDEBVALL
New York Medical College
mind is that of general mudsill to society—-
dumb, faithful, disfranchised and cheap.
If this is not what is meant then let young
people like those pictured on these pages
have a chance for such higher and fuller self-
development as will enable them to compete
with modern men under modern conditions.
Is it fair to educate a race of scullions and
then complain of their lack of proven
ability?
THE MONTESSORI METHOD-ITS
POSSIBILITIES
By JESSIE FAUSET
O one probably arrives at hi
majority without beginninj
that habit of retrospectioi
which is to be with hin
more or less for the rest o
his life. It is at times lik<
these that he is brought fac»
to face with the realization of the years i
has taken him to get, so to speak, on hi*
mental feet. Such an appalling waste, anc
even yet he is lumbering! His judgment is
not always stable, his mental acts somehow
lack co-ordination, his self-control is at bes
dependent on environment, and his initiativt
is often entirely lacking.
Indeed, when one considers the pitifu
brevity of the allotted span of years, th<
amount of time generally deemed necessary
to fit an individual to become a useful mem
ber of society seems totally disproportionate
and ridiculous. Twenty-one years—one-thirc
of a man’s whole life. The lower anin\als
especially cats and dogs, seldom live be
yond the age of ten years. Suppose it took
a kitten three years to learn to co-ordinate
its movements to the catching of a mouse, to
learn to control its body and its faint men-
tality ! One is amused at the idea.
It is not hard to place the faults in the
development of human beings. There are
many. But surely these are the two most
obvious. The child is trained from infancy
to abject dependence on his elders. Secondly,
he is girt about with rules and precedents
which stifle originality and initiative. He is
simply smothered by too much and wrongly
applied care and kindness.
Now it is exactly this condition of affairs
that the Montessori system is seeking to ob-
viate. Doctor .Montessori, in a long and
scientific study of childhood, has arrived at,
among manjr others, the following important
conclusions: First, that the child is natur-
ally independent; secondly, that he is ambi-
tious to prove this; thirdly, that he will, if
his small feet are once set upon the way,
THE MONTESSORI METHOD
137
spontaneously arrive at a given point; and
fourthly, that his powers of initiative are
tremendous.
With these views in mind, Dr. Montessori
set about the development of that system
which bids fair to revolutionize the educa-
tional schemes of the world. Her slogan is
“Liberate the personality of the child, per-
mit him his natural manifestations; let him
choose his activities, for it makes very little
difference what he does, as long as he does
no harm.”
Again she says: “We cannot know the
consequences of suffocating a spontaneous
action at the time when the child is just
beginning to be active; perhaps we suffocate
life itself.”
All this sounds very simple; so simple,
one may say, that it scarcely needs exploit-
ing, but wait. Consider our modern schools
and their methods. There one sees row after
row of little children, and in the higher
schools big children, too, seated in clamped-
down benches that cannot possibly allow
freedom to all. Everybody, except in very
rare cases, is subject to the same rules;
everybody has his facts presented in the
same general manner; everybody is engaged,
particularly in the lower schools, in about
the same activities.
Now in the Case dei Bambini, the Chil-
dren’s Houses in the quarter of San Lorenzo
in Rome, all this is different. Here the
children sit, when they are sitting, in small,
comfortable, portable armchairs. Here,
while one child fingers the wooden letters
of the alphabet and unconsciously learns
to distinguish between them, another is
absorbed in touching pieces of silk and velvet
and sandpaper, and so learning the differ-
ence between “rough” and “smooth.” A
third is interested in a wooden frame on
which are mounted two pieces of cloth or
leather to be fastened and unfastened by
means of the buttons and buttonholes, hooks
and eyes, eyelets and lacings, or automatic
fastenings.
That little girl will get up some morning,
and before she realizes it will begin to fas-
ten her little garments herself. When she
does realize her ability, think of the eager-
ness with which she will try to manipulate
all the strings and bows and buttons she
possesses. She will have attained inde-
pendence.
Naturally enough, the question arises:
How, in a school of this order, is discipline
maintained? If by discipline is meant the
stolidity, the utter silence, the rigidity main-
tained by or rather forced on pupils in the
ordinary schools, the answer, of course, must
be, there is no discipline. And yet no one
could call the pupils in the “Children’s
Houses” disorderly. The point is that the
child is taught here that good and immo-
bility, evil and activity, are not necessarily
synonymous. As a result, there is generally
to be found in these classrooms the pleasant
bustle of intense preoccupation.
The children in one group are helping a
teacher to put away the didactic material,
and their services are never refused. Because
the child is trusted he does his best. In a
few days—at most in a few weeks—he is
able to carry one of the little armchairs from
one place to another, without coming in con-
tact with anything. He gathers up the card-
board letters and arranges them in their
boxes just as he sees the teacher do it. Grad-
ually, unconsciously, he acquires the habit of
keeping his own things in order. Sometimes
a child who has been working at some self-
imposed task attains perfection with unex-
pected celerity and utters an exclamation of
joy. But this does not interfere. Either the
other children, attracted by his pleasure,
group themselves around him and he tries
to show them how he met his success, or else,
incited by his example, they bend to their
own tasks with renewed energy.
Most important of all, very few of these
children are persistently naughty. They
have no occasion to be. For, as Dr. Mon-
tessori says, naughtiness is very often the in-
stinctive effort of the child to assert a re-
pressed personality. Since these children’s
activities are not repressed, but are simply
directed into safe channels, and there al-
lowed full play—there is no need for such
assertion. Thus, these tiny children, ranging
in age from three years upward, acquire a
discipline which will be theirs when hard and
fast laws and restrictions fail.
One of the most important aims of the
Montessori system is the direct training of
the senses. We have already spoken briefly
of the deliberate development of the sense of
touch, whereby the child is enabled to dis-
tinguish between rough and smooth, thick
and thin, heavy and light. Indeed, the
children finally grow to look upon their ten
fingers as their “other eyes.” The sense of
sight, however, particularly in regard to
colors, is also given careful attention.
138
THE
CRISIS
Iu this connect ion Dr. Moutessori makes
use of the three periods into which the les-
son, according to Seguin, is divided:
“First period—The association of the sen-
sory perception with the name.
“For example, we present to the child two
colors, red and blue. Presenting the red, we
say simply ‘This is red/ and presenting the
blue, ‘This is blue., Then we lay the spools
of colors upon the table under the eyes of
the child.
“Second period—Recognition of the object
corresponding to the name. We say to the
child, ‘Give me the red/ and then, ‘Give me
the blue.’
“Third period—The remembering of the
name corresponding to the object. We ask
the child, showing him the object, ‘What is
this?’ and he should respond, ‘Red/ This
process is reiterated many times.”
One day the child, who has been drawing
little trees and coloring them all blue or
green, or red, as strikes his fancy, volun-
tarily draws a tree with a brown trunk and
green leaves. He has observed a tree, and
has found, with great pleasure, that he can
recognize its colors. Undoubtedly this volun-
tary observation will have a more lasting
effect upon him than knowledge received at
second hand. And in addition to the mere
possession of this knowledge, note the co-
ordination of the visual impression with the
execution of the hand.
The most noteworthy result, however, of
Dr. Montessori’s method has been obtained
in the matter of teaching children to write
and read. By her system children of four,
five and six have been taught to write in a
manner equal to that obtained in the third
elementary grade. These cases are not
exceptions.
To obtain these results she used small
wooden tables, metal insets, outline drawings
and colored pencils. The child takes the
metal frame, places it upon a sheet of white
paper, and with a colored pencil draws
around the contour of the empty center.
Then he takes away the frame, and upon the
paper there remains the geometric figure.
This the child fills in. In this wise he learns
to practice the vertical and horizontal
strokes required in penmanship, and also the
co-ordination of the mental concept with the
manual action, because in filling in he tries
not to go outside the border line. Gradually
he becomes master of the pencil.
Next the children are given cards upon
which the single letters of the alphabet are
mounted in sandpaper; also larger cards con-
taining groups of the same letters. He be-
comes familiar with the outline of these by
the means of touch, then he traces them,
then he draws them, and lastly, he learns
how to compare and recognize the figures
when he hears the sounds corresponding to
them.
At last, some fine' day, he begins to copy
words which contain letters that have im-
pressed him, though not yet conscious that
he is writing, and still later he learns that
a word may be written at any time to convey
an idea. Thus his reading follows swiftly
on the heels of his writing and he has prac-
tically accomplished it himself.
It is easy to see how rich may be the
future of children equipped thus early with
sharpened sense perceptions, with independ-
ence and judgment and growing self-control.
For them everything in the world takes on a
more vivid coloring, avenues hitherto un-
suspected are open, and the sheer joy of
living is keener and stronger. Such a child
gets practically an extension of the years of
his life.
Of course we do not want prodigies,
though, after all, the quality of prodigyship
is relative. For if all the eleven-year-old
boys in a given radius can work problems
in differential calculus, which one of them,
then,	is remarkable?
The FAITHS OF TEACHERS
By G. S. DICKERMAN
N occupation means much or
little, according to the way
it is taken. In almost any
pursuit that can be named
you will see some who go
through its forms mechan-
ically and without interest,
having in mind merely to meet requirements
and draw the pay; and alongside of them
others who seize on every task with avidity,
grappling its difficulties with a sort of joy,
trying experiments,’ making ventures, incur*
ring heavy risks and looking for returns be-
yond any stipulated wages. The latter do
honor to their occupation and are likely to
be honored by it.
The teacher’s occupation is no exception.
Think of the teachers you have known, some
without aim and drifting into their places
as floating sticks drift into the pool by the
side of a mountain brook, to circle around
there in the still water for awhile till a
freshet comes to throw them out; and then
another, so unlike these, who began in his
early schooldays to set the teacher’s calling
before him as a goal of ambition to be
diligently prepared for by years of serious
study, and finally entering on it, put into
its duties his best and holiest service as for
ends the highest to be found in all the
world.
Now that which makes the difference in
these, is the difference in their faiths. Be-
hind achievements are faiths. Great teach-
ers are men and women of great faiths. And
there are certain faiths that they all hold
in common. Let me mention some of these:
1.	Faith in the pupil’s worth—and in the
worth of all pupils.
There are pupils whose worth none ever
question, unusually attractive boys and girls,
gifted in mind and sunny of disposition; of
course these should be educated, for anyone
can see that there is something in them. But
there are others of whom people are not so
sure; perhaps their fathers and mothers hope
that something can be made of them, but
the neighbors say: “No, all the pains taken
with their education is just so much thrown
away; there is nothing there to build on.”
It takes the clear-eyed teacher to see the
deeper things in that child; those latent
powers which are waiting to be called into
exercise.
Eighty years ago people thought that noth-
ing could be made of a blind mute. Then a
teacher arose and gathered about him a little
group of blind children and began to try
what could be done for them. We know
now the story of Dr. Samuel G. Howe and
of the little speechless, vacant-minded, sight-
less Laura Bridgman, whom he trained into
an intellectual and accomplished woman, and
with whose development was established the
Perkins Institution for the Blind. And at
that time, eighty years ago, a similar hope-
less feeling prevailed about other children
unfortunate for a different cause, when this
same great teacher began to try his experi-
ments on these also, and straightway there
grew up a second wonderful school, the
Massachusetts School for Idiotic and Feeble-
minded Children. There was faith in the
unpromising pupil and we see that it was
not in vain.
Every school has its unpromising pupils;
but in these the true teacher will search for
promise and will find it. I know a teacher,
a brilliant, highly educated woman, who for
a number of years has devoted herself to a
class made up of the backward children
in a public high school, the children too
dull to keep in the ranks of the regular
classes, and she delights in her work because
she is able to discover in those stupid pupils
unsuspected capabilities and to kindle in
them a flame of self-respect and of ambition.
She has had repeated invitations to other
positions, but she declines them as less inter-
esting than this.
Not long ago I visited a school in which
the principal talked with me very freely
about his methods and called to the office a
number of boys for personal conversation.
Among these was one for whom he showed
especial solicitude, and this was on account
of his inferiority. Out of a low family and
from bad home influences, he was what might
be called a hard case, dull-witted, whiffling
and unreliable, without ambition and unre-
sponsive to his teachers’ best efforts—what
was to be done with him? The principal
140
THE CRISIS
said he had been advised to get rid of him
as a hindrance to the other pupils, but he
would not. Because there was no other such
boy in the school this one had become his
most fascinating problem aud he was giving
to him more intense thought than to any
other. He was studying every trait, every
movement, every whim, to get at some hid-
den spring of wish or inclination which might
offer solid ground for the improvement of
conduct and the rebuilding of character. As
I went away from that school I felt that 1
had seen a real teacher, real because he was
groping for the good things in his worst
boy.
2.	Faith in effort—effort for the pupil
and by the pupil.
When Dr. Howe took in charge those un-
fortunates in Boston he began by playing
with their impulsive and aimless movements
till he had shown them that one thing was
unlike another and had taught them to choose
between the two, then to remember, to think
and to learn simple lessons, from which they
were led on step by step to a wider intelli-
gence. Dr. Howe was a man of eminence
and had already done great service in many
lands, but I suppose that he never had put
into any undertaking such intense and tire-
less exertion as he bestowed on these poor
children. It required such effort to bring
their sleeping powers into exercise and
exertion.
This is the spirit for dealing with the
unpromising pupil in any school. The others
are likely to do well without the teacher’s
taking extra pains, but here is a task to try
his patience and his resources. How can he
wake up the dunce? It is a case for expedi-
ents and experiments. What is the key?
What does the boy care for? If he dislikes
reading he may take to figures, or to drawing
or music. If he has no interest in these he
may be attracted by the tools in a shop or
the plants and flowers in a garden. He may
be brought to love the trees in the woods and
to learn their names and uses, to watch the
birds and catch their notes, to study the
bees hanging on a thistle blossom and follow
them to their hive, to look at a mosquito un-
der a glass and to hunt for his breeding
places. Other things all failing, doubtless he
may be made to take an interest in the play-
ground and to do some vigorous thinking,
as well as pitching, batting and running in
a baseball game. I have in mind a man
who has in a certain city a night school into
which he wants to attract the boys and
young men that no other good influences are
reaching, the very vagabonds and desperadoes
who are on the road to a penitentiary or
the gallows; and one of the things that he
does is to teach his pupils boxing—boxiDg
with gloves, but rough and bloody. He is
ready to drill them in the rules and manners
of the prize ring as the only drill that they
can appreciate, and he hopes thus to get a
foundation of discipline on which later they
can be taught the higher lessons of obedience
to the laws of the State, self-control, manli-
ness and honorable industry.
Endeavors such as these mean effort by
the teacher, constant and untiring, and it is
in this way that the greatest teaching is
done. By such courses the tightly locked
doors of many a darkened life are opened to
the light of intelligence, ambition and growth
into a noble manhood or womanhood.
3.	Faith in personal example.
The teachers greatest power is not in what
he say’s, but in what he is; in the illustration
he gives from day to day of a strong, true,
winsome life. The Divine Master said to his
pupils: “Take my yoke on you and learn
of me,” and again, “I have given you an
example, that ye also should do as I have
done to you.” The apostle Paul on more
than one occasion said: “Be ye imitators of
me.” This is the law of all the highest
teaching.
Put the lazy, listless child under a teacher
of animation and energy; it will do more for
him than many lectures on laziness. Give
to a selfish child an example of thoughtful
care for the happiness of all around you; to
the deceitful an example of transparent sin-
cerity'; to the vicious and lawless an example
of spotless purity and superiority to every
unworthy self-indulgence. The teacher who
keeps himself under healthy discipline will
make this the most effective discipline for
his school.
But what of the teacher who is lax with
himself? One has said: “Your conduct
speaks so loud I cannot hear anything you
say.” What is the use of lecturing on sin-
cerity if one is himself insincere? What will
talk about self-denial and the control of ap-
petite and freedom from debasing habits
amount to if the very breath with which one
speaks is odorous from his own self-indul-
gence? An example which does not re-
THE FAITHS OF TEACHERS
141
inforce instruction is apt to nullify it. That
is why certain injurious practices are so pre-
valent among the boys and young men of our
times. What else could be looked for when
so many who are supposed to be emiuent in
morals aud religion habitually indulge them-
selves in these practices?
With all these forces in opposition the
clear-eyed teacher guards his own example
with unwavering constancy. What better can
he do for his boys? And however those boys
may go on their way and perhaps vary from
the path laid out before them, it will not be
without value that they have once known so
fine an illustration of the higher things of
life. The power of such a teacher does not
cease with graduation day; it goes on with
each pupil into all his future story.
4.	Faith in the unfoldings of character
through processes beyond our knowledge.
The processes of all life are concealed. We
do not understand the life of the seed from
the commonest herb nor how it sprouts and
grows. But anyone who plants a seed ex-
pects it to grow. It is the same with the
life of the spirit. What happens in the
schoolroom is to be remembered; habits there
formed are to continue; standards of right
and wrong, of truth and duty, of honor and
shame, pass into the inmost texture of the
soul and abide there. But the outcome of it
all, how, when and where, is beyond our
forecast. A word, a glance of the eye, a
trifling incident, may work a radical change
in character; it may do this at once or it may
be years about it. So unfathomable are the
deeps of influence that go into the long
courses of experience through which every
human life is borne on to its completion.
And this is where the teacher works, putting
in his impressions from moment to moment,
from day to day, from year to year, to grow
character and to determine destiny.
It might be wise for people to give more
thought than they are doing to the part
which teachers are playing in the world’s
progress. Take the story of the colored peo-
ple in the United States during the last fifty
years—many are surprised at the reports
which are given out from time to time. It
is a record of rapidly advancing intelligence,
energy and wealth. Let me refer to a few
well-known figures of the United States cen-
sus. In 1S60 the number of colored children
attending school was 32,639, of whom 29,906
were in the Northern Free States. In 1S70
the number had risen to 180,372, of whom
58,808 were in the North and 131,564 in the
South. Now leap over a period of forty
years to 1910, and we find the number of
colored children enrolled in the public schools
of the South alone, as reported by the Com-
missioner of Education, to be 1,748,853, with
an average attendance daily of 1,105,629, and
with over 30,000 teachers; we find also 150
public high schools containing 11,662 pupils;
and besides these some 260 schools for ad-
vanced training, designated as universities,
colleges, normal schools or institutes, in which
are fully 75,000 students.*
This development is the more impressive
if we bring before our minds the colored peo-
ple as they were forty or fifty years ago.
We can find those who will describe the
colored schools of that time—the old army
barracks at Nashville, Hampton, Atlanta and
other places which served for schoolrooms,
very unlike the commodious buildings and
attractive grounds of the colored schools in
those same places to-day. A comparison of
the pupils is even more striking, that wild
horde of unkempt boys and girls, men and
women of uncertain age, many of them clad
in rags, unwashed and with the tight knobs
of hair on their round heads wound thick
with cotton strings—what a contrast to those
you will see now in a thousand schools, not
in cities only but often in sparsely settled
districts, children and youth clean in person,
neatly attired in becoming garments, orderly
in behavior, and frequently giving evidence
of a careful training in the home. The
colored teachers in these schools, numbering
over 30,000, all grown and trained within so
short a time from a race without educational
traditions, how much they mean! Not all
model teachers, indeed, but far superior to
what might have been expected, and approved
most heartily by those Southern superintend-
ents and intelligent observers who know the
most about their work.
These facts tell of a new intelligence
awakening on a vast scale. And this brings
other developments of great moment. Of
course there is increase of wealth, a multi-
plication of prosperous farms, of banks,
stores, comfortable homes and substantial
churches. Organizations for religious effort,
for insurance and mutual aid have their net-
*“An Era of Progress and Promise,” W. N.
Hartshorn, pp. 369-371.
142
THE CRISIS
work of operations covering the whole coun-
try. Several hundred newspapers are owned
and published by colored people. Several
thousand colored physicians are engaged in
a lucrative practice, and individuals here and
there are winning distinction from time to
time as authors, speakers, musicians, artists
and inventors.
How has all this come about? Are these
simply the spontaneous phenomena of the
new atmosphere of freedom? Such develop-
ments do not come in that way. There have
been intelligent causes behind them. The
explanation lies in the work of the teachers.
Starting with those who began their service
in the old barracks, at first only a few but
soon increasing to many hundred—they
planted in the eager pupils who gathered in
their schools the strong seeds of a new life.
They were no ordinary teachers. Usually of
superior parentage, brought up in Christian
homes of rare privilege, educated in the best
schools and colleges of the United States,
they went to their service as to a sacred
ministry, and they met its hard tasks with a
fidelity and devotion not often surpassed.
It has been the fashion in certain quarters
to disparage the endeavors of these teachers
who came down from the North, and to say
that their instructions were ill adapted to
the necessities of such a people, that too
much use was made of books and too little
of things that could be grasped with the
hand. Such criticisms overlook the condi-
tions and circumstances that had to be dealt
with. Those teachers attacked the desperate
situation that confronted them in the only
way they could. They taught in the manner
they had been taught themselves, in the
manner other teachers were doing their work
in schools all over the country, North and
South. They used such methods and text
books as they had to use; how could they
employ such as had not yet been thought oft
But the vital thing in a teacher is not
methods or artificial devices of any kind; it
is an indefinable power of spiritual person-
ality. Many of these teachers had this
quality in large measure. They had those
faiths of which I have been speaking. They
believed in the worth of their pupils, how-
ever unattractive, and however others might
laugh at their faith; they believed in effort
to bring out dormant faculties and made
their schools hives of industry; they believed
in example and lived a good life, the best of
all lessons and the one to be longest
remembered; they believed in the un-
foldings of character, to come how
and when they could not tell, and they were
content to wait. There is a mysterious con-
tagion in faiths like these, and those who
gave themselves to this service fifty years
ago have not wanted for successors. The
score of names has gone on increasing from
year to year and it is increasing still; and
their pupils following with steadfast purpose
the standards of life and character instilled
into them have grown to be like their teach-
ers till they have reproduced their faith and
service in every town and village of the
land.
If the teachers in the many thousand col-
ored schools of to-day would have incentive
to their hope and inspiration for their serv-
ice they can do no better than to look back
to those first schools, recall the spirit of those
pioneer teachers, and reflect on the harvests
that have ripened from their seed sowing.
“ THE WHITE MAN'S BURDEN ”
By CHARLES S. NUTTER. D. D.
Hast thou a Saxon face? No fault of thine,
No virtue, too. Thy brothers nearly all.
Are brown of various shades. Rare man,
reflect,
Is merit in the hue? Boast not; pray God,
He bleach thy soul to match thy pallid face.
GENERAL EVARISTO ESTENOZ
By ARTHUR A. SCHOMBURG
HE cable has flashed over the
world the news that in
Cuba General Evaristo
Estenoz has taken up the
gage of battle for the rights
of his dark fellowinen, and
that a crisis in Cuba is the
result. General Estenoz was born at San-
tiago de Cuba, the birthplace of revolutionary
conspiracies. He is a builder by occupation
and a soldier who has won fame by his record
in many bloody engagements.
Soon after the close of the Cuban War
and the establishment of the republic, he
associated himself with Rafael Serra, the
lamented Negro philosopher, who wrote a
book, ‘‘For Whites and Blacks,” a collection
of essays, arguing that since both races had
fought to make the republic possible, they
should enjoy in common the burdens and the
benefits of the country. These two gentle-
men, the lawmaker and the warmaker, visited
New York in the summer of 1905. Though
different in temperaments and political affil-
iations they had one object, namely, to study
conditions with the view to submitting the
result of their observations to their com-
patriots in Cuba and improving matters at
home.
Serra died soon after their return and the
work of the pen fell on the shoulders of
Estenoz. The new Independent Colored
Party was formed and incorporated; its ob-
ject being to promote the interests of the
colored race, to urge the government to recog-
nize their rights as citizens and taxpayers,
and to accord them a fair proportion of the
elective and appointive offices.
The Independent Colored Party was looked
upon in its infancy as one of the mauy
booms started by Negroes which would soon
die, but as time grew it gathered into its
fold men who were veterans of two and three
wars, and clubs sprung up like mushrooms
all over the island. In a year there was a
club for every city, and the party had a
membership of over 60,000 Negro voters—
an organization, in short, capable of thwart-
ing the prearranged plans of the whites. It
became a matter of political expediency at
first to belittle and finally to crush the at-
tempt of the Negro leaders. The organ of
the Negro party, called Prevision, was a
weekly newspaper of eight pages, ably edited
by Estenoz. So great was the demand for
this publication that the press could not turn
out enough copies to supply the thousands
of readers.
The new party was a success and it
augured no good to President Gomez. When
the government found that it could not deal
with the situation, it turned to the late
Negro senator, M. Morua Delgado, the presi-
dent of the senate. It persuaded him to
introduce in that body his notorious “Amend-
ment No. 17” of the electoral law, which,
in effect, forbade the formation of any po-
litical party along racial lines. For this
perfidy Delgado was rewarded with the ap-
pointment to the portfolio of secretary of
war, but he was ever afterward looked upon
by the Negroes of Cuba as a Judas to his
race. Although he did not, like Judas, go
out and hang himself, he died, it is said, of
a broken heart.
Nothing could have been more exasperating
to the Negroes of Cuba than the Morua law.
From the moment of its adoption to the pres-
ent period they have consistently opposed
its enforcement. General Estenoz, whose
money and influence had contributed to the
election of President Gomez, was hailed as
the man of the future.
The Negroes began to realize, when their
leaders were thrown into prison on the eve
of election, that the white Cubans had de-
termined that they should not have any
representation save what was bestowed on
them as a charity. The Cuban Negroes are
sensitive and well informed; but for them
the revolutions through which Cuba has
passed would have been impossible. But
to-day an unconstitutional law, as infamous
and despicable as the American Dred Scott
decision, which declared that “Negroes had
no rights which white men are bound to re-
spect,” deprives the Negroes of Cuba of
political character and independence. They
are hunted by spies, threatened with im-
prisonment and misrepresented in the press
whenever they attempt to assert their rights.
During the colonial days of Spain the
Negroes were better treated, enjoyed a greater
measure of freedom and happiness than they
144
THE CRISIS
do to-day. Negroes were esteemed lor their
talents and respected for their industry and
integrity. Many Cuban Negroes curse the
dawn of the Republic. Negroes were wel-
comed in the time of oppression, in the time
of hardship, during the days of the revolu-
tion. but in the days of peace and of white
immigration they are deprived of positions,
ostracized and made political outcasts. The
Negro has done much for Cuba; Cuba has
done nothing for the Negro.
The black men of Cuba have taken to the
woods because conditions are intolerable, be-
cause. as my friend, the late Jose Marti, the
apostle of Cuban freedom, said: ‘‘So long
as there remains one injustice to repair in
Cuba the revolutionary redemption has not
finished its work/'
@ # @
PROTECTION
leave the place,
““V/fUST you. surely
mother ?”
The questioner was a Negro sailor. He
and his mother stood before the fireplace in
the one-room cabin in which he had been
born. Above the fireplace was a picture of
Lincoln and an American flag.
“El dey means ter turn me out. dey will,
son,” the woman an-
swered. “Lord knows
1’se paid fo’ de
place. We has worked
here, chillen an’ all,
you knows dat, an’
I’se give money fo’
de cabin an’ de Ian’,
bit by bit. Dey gib
me bits ob papers,
but dey say now de
trouble is I ain’t got
a deed. Der trouble
is all dis Ian’ roun’
about is sol’, an’ I
ain’t wanted here.”
“But that isn’t
law. You ought to
go to the justice of
the peace.”
“De justice ob de
peace, son, were my
landlord, an’ he sol*
de lan’.”	________ .	.
“I wish I could "DEE TROUBl^rnrr
help you in this trouble, mother,” the sailor
said, “but I must hurry to my ship. We
sail in two days.”
“Whar to?” the woman asked.
“Why, to Cuba, mother; I told you that.
We’re ordered to Cuba at once.”
“What you goin’ dar fo’?”
“To protect American interests.” The man
strut led across the room to where his bag
lay. “We’ve got a heap of money in Cuba.
1 tell you our navy’ll blow the Cubans off the
earth if they touch American property. It’s
a great thing to be an American. Wherever
you go the flag follows you and protects you
in your rights.”
The old woman
turned to the mantel-
piece, and taking the
flag from its place
dropped it into the
flames.
“You go about yer
duty, an’ serve yer
country7,” she said,
“but that flag ain’t
fo’ me. They can
steal from my kin’,
an’ there ain’t a
jedge down here, or a
man up in Washing-
ton, or one ob dem
delegates dat goes
screamin’ up an’
down de country
about human rights,
as ud gib a moment
ter pertectin’ me.
Me an’ my kin’ ain’t
wanted, unless it’s
fo’ slaves.”
She turned back to the mantel and laid
her hand tenderly upon the picture of the
great emancipator.
“Thank der Lord you ain’t live ter see it,”
she said.
M.	W. 0.
A SOCIAX CENTER AT HAMPTON, VA.
By A. W. Huxtox.
JX many cities and towns clubs of colored
women are making: successful efforts for
social betterment. In some instances these
clubs have not yet realized the fact that
they, too, are being influenced by the great
spirit of social service which is revealing
itself to the hearts of men in a more posi-
tive and practical way than ever before.
These clubs have realized the need of
things being done; and, for want of trained
leadership, have taken the initiative in
doing them. There has been much experi-
mentation and some blunders, but results
have been certain and valuable; the more
so, perhaps, because although lacking in a
severely systematic jurisdiction, this effort
for social betterment among colored club-
women has ever bad an overflow of loving
sacrifice and enthusiasm to encourage it.
The Social Center, at Hampton, Va., prob-
ably takes first rank among our clubs in
this line of endeavor. This is not true
because it is one of the oldest efforts, but
for the reason that Mrs. Janie Porter
Barrett, the able woman to whom was given
the vision of the work for Hampton, has
given twenty years of personal supervision
to its development and has studied and
traveled meanwhile to learn the best there
is in this Dew movement for social better-
ment.
The object and growth of the work are
best told in Mrs. Barrett's own words. She
says: “The center was begun twenty years
ago in the home of the present head worker,
with the definite aim of improving the
homes and the moral and social life of that
community. The aim has not changed
through the years. This work began with a
few girls of the immediate neighborhood,
has reached out in every section of the com-
munity, and now there are clubs and classes
every afternoon and evening in the week,
eight months of the year. These clubs
and classes include boys, girls, mothers and
grandmothers, classified according to age
and needs, and through these many other
people are reached. The "work grew too
large for the house in which it was started
nearly ten years ago, and now has a club-
house, which it has already outgrown, but
which is still the center of all the activities
of the settlement.
“The Woman's Club, known as the Home
Makers' Club, has several departments, all
of which work for some phase of home
improvement. Each woman works in the
line in which she has greatest interest. All
come together at intervals to work out and
discuss common problems."
Visiting the center at Hampton, one
would hardly believe that such a variety of
work, by so large a number of people, could
146
THE CRISIS
be done in such small space. But here the
resourcefulness and ingenuity of the leader
is seen at its best. Just one room seems
used for the same purpose at all times. This
room is the kitchen where, under the direc-
tion of the cooking department, work of
inestimable value to the community is being
done. The best in preserving and canning,
in cake and breadmaking and in the prep-
aration of ordinary foods may be learned
there, as well as something of food values,
etc.
The parlor witnesses many transforma-
tions. Sometimes it is a music room for a
singing class; another time a closet door is
opened and games of all descriptions appear
to the satisfaction of a group of boys or
girls. Another hour and it is a quiet reading
room or a lecture room for a group of
mothers.
But it is in the upper room that one
sees the real workshop. There are to be
found products of the needle, of embroidery,
knitting, basket weaving, chair caning and
woodwork. If the real woman does not
thrill as she observes the girls and women
develop beautiful things here, she is certain
to do so if she is permitted to examine the
finished embroideries, rugs, baskets, etc.,
that are ready for the purchaser. Much
support for the work is derived from
articles sold, but the chief benefit is in
giving the boys, girls and women the en-
nobling touch with the beautiful together
with the power to earn a penny.
There is the large well-kept yard with
much more room for its activities. Poultry
raising, home gardening and flower culture
could all be written about with profit. Last
year more than three thousand cuttings and
plants and three hundred packages of seed
were distributed to the community through
this center. The remainder of the grounds
is given over to well-directed play and
exercise. There are “teams” of various
kinds for both boys and girls and tennis and
croquet grounds.
Still another chapter could be written on •
the child-welfare department, which, along
with other things, has done much to save
juvenile offenders from prison cells.
HISTORIC DAYS IN JULY
1.	Slavery abolished in the Dutch West
Indies, 1863.
2.	Vermont declared slavery a violation
of natural rights, 1777.
3.	Prince Hall established first lodge of
Negro Freemasons in North America, 1775.
4.	Booker T. Washington opened school
at Tuskegee, Ala., 1881.
5.	Joseph B. Foraker, defender of the
discharged battalion of the 25th Infantry,
bom, 1846.
6.	Hawaiian Islands made United States
Territory', 1898.
7.	General B. F. Butler discharged from
the army a Negro, enlisted as a white man,
1862.
8.	Right of suffrage given Negroes in
District of Columbia, 1867.
9.	Negroes massacred at Hamburg, S. C.,
1875.
11. Act of Congress to effect treaty for
the final suppression of the slave trade ap-
proved, 1862.
13. Draft riots in New York City, 1863.
16.	Daniel Hand, philanthropist, born,
1801.
17.	Act of Congress authorizing the arm-
ing of Negroes approved, 1862.
18.	Lemuel Haynes, celebrated Negro
minister, born, 1753.
Fort Wagner assaulted and Col. Robert
G.	Shaw killed, 1863.
19.	Tennessee ratified the Fourteenth
Amendment, 1866.
20.	The Fourteenth Amendment pro-
claimed, 186S.
21.	General David Hunter, first Union
commander in War of Rebellion to enlist
Negro troops, born, 1802.
27. Anthony Burns, whose rendition as a
fugitive slave caused riots in Boston, died,
1862.
29.	Bethel, Philadelphia, the mother of
A. M. E. Church, dedicated, 1794.
30.	Massacre growing out of politics in
New Orleans, 1866.
31.	Slavery ceased in Egypt, 1881.
L. M. Hershaw.
COLORED MEN LYNCHED WITHOUT
TRIAL.
1885			1S99			 S4
1886		. .. .	71	1900			107
1887			1901			107
1888			1902			 86
1889			1903			 S6
1S90		. .. . 90	1904			 83
1891			1905			 61
1892			1906			 64
1893			1907			 60
1S94		... . 134	190S			 93
1895			1909			 73
1S96			1910			 65
1S97			1911			63
1S98				—
Total				
m
DELINQUENT GIRLS IN MISSOURI.
"X/fRS. IDA A. WALKER, president of
the Missouri State Federation of
Tolored Women, has a strong letter in the
U.	B. F. Searchlight, the official organ of
the Missouri State Teachers, Association,
urging the men, by their votes, to demand
that the State make some provision for de-
linquent colored girls.
“Do you know,” she writes, “that more
than three-fourths of the women in the
penitentiary are young colored women?
Why does this condition exist? Are our
women greater criminals than the women
of other races? No. The Industrial Home
at Chillicotbe is overcrowded. And it can
readily be seen that the percentage of crimi-
nality is not greater among our girls than
among the white girls, but it is because we
have no other place to send our delinquent
girls save to the penitentiary. It is the duty
of every church, fraternal organization,
newspaper and race-loving man to assist the
Negro clubwomen of the State in doing
something for our girls who are crying to
us from the lowest depths, and in keeping
them out of the penitentiary.”
“I MET A LITTLE BLUE-EYED GIRL.’'
A certain element in the South takes pai?is to rear the children of the family
faithfully in the doctrines of Blease and Vardanian. “A Negro had been lynched
in the neighborhood,” said a recently returned traveler, “and crouds went out to see
what teas left of his body. The people I was staying with went icith the rest and
took their children—all but one, who had been naughty and was kept home as a
punishment ”
T MET a little blue-eyed girl—
She said she was five years old;
“Your locket is very pretty, dear;
And pray what may it hold?”
And then—my heart grew chill and sick—
The gay child did not flinch—
“I found it—the tooth of a colored man—
My father helped to lynch.”
“And what had he done, my fair-haired
child?”
(Life and Death play a fearful game!)
“Oh, he did nothing—they made a mistake—
But they had their fun, just the same!”
Bertha Johnston.
KOIKIC®
LETTER BOX
1 am pleased to know that we have suck a
paper as The Crisis. If tke whole family
of colored newspapers were more like it,
how much better it would be for our race.
Here in the community we have settled the
“Race Problem,” and some of our people, in
fact most all, are shortsighted enough to
think it is settled everywhere. There is
some friction here, but it amounts to just
the same as if they were all one—in fact,
there is more trouble between colored and
colored and white and white than between
colored and while—a quarrel or fight be-
tween the two races being rare. The farm-
ers in each race do not hesitate to exchange
work and sit at each others’ tables, and they
trade as freely as if each were all white or
all colored. I have no complaint at home,
but let me travel away, then I find that there
is a “Race Problem,” and that “Race Prob-
lem” will have to be settled in some way.
Esau Harris,
Cutler, Ohio.
The January number is splendid. I en-
joyed it greatly. I wish those pictures of
lynching could be put upon the moving-
picture roll. That way, and that way only,
will they speak to the multiplied thousands
their sad truth. We often see upon the
canvas the pictures of Indian cruelty to the
white man; can’t we turn it around and
show them the white man’s brutishness to
the Negro? We suffer almost anything
(except lynching) right here in the beautiful
land of simshine. Civil privileges are here
unknown. You can’t bathe at the beaches,
eat in any first-class place, nor will the
street car and sight-seeing companies sell us
tickets if they can possibly help it. I am
speaking from experience.
Mrs. Louise McDonald,
Los Angeles, Cal.
m
I have read and kept every issue of your
most interesting magazine since its first pub-
lication, and I am as pleased to get each
fresh copy as a child with its Santa Claus.
The covers are always pretty, and I adore
those like the “Quadroon,” with that bit of
delicious verse, and February’s, displaying
the flowers of our race, the most. Its pages
fill a long-felt want. This, with the prob-
lem books and plays, will do much to lift
the “awful burden.”
Matthew Bennett,
New York City.
m
I ought also to tell you of the great satis-
faction with which 1 read The Crisis. It
is an admirable publication; I don’t see how
it could be better. It fills the bill exactly,
and 1 think we*ought to thank you for it.
I do every month.
Charles Edward Russell,
New York City.
m
(In answer to a request (or pictures.)
I am thoroughly in sympathy with what
you are doing, but find that I cannot ar-
range to supply you with all that you wish.
I consulted our one colored photographer
here, and he does not think it possible, or
at least practicable, for him to secure any
of the photographs except those of the
schools and the churches. You know what
conditions are in this section, and can read-
ily understand the position this photog-
rapher takes. He could hardly get some of
those pictures without exciting comment or
suspicion, or even being the object of vio-
lence. If you will let me know whether you
would like to have pictures of the churches
and schools I shall notify the photographer,
and he will communicate with you.
m
I enclose a letter I received from the
Canadian Superintendent of Immigration
in reply to an inquiry about colored people
in Western Canada. I think you will find it
interesting.
Ottawa, Canada, March 29, 1912.
Sir: I have had referred to me by H. M.
Williams, our agent at Toledo, your letter of
the 23d inst., and I beg to say in reply that
I do not think there are good openings for
your people in Western Canada. We have
had to send back to the United States quite
a number of those who failed to succeed in
the West, and on account of this it has been
LETTER BOX
149
found necessary to make a very careful
medical examination of all colored people
applying for entry, with the result that a
great man}* have been rejected. I do not
think it would be advisable for you to come,
as I am quite sure that the opportunities
for your people are better in the warmer
climate.
Your obedient servant,
(Signed) W. W. Scott,
Superintendent of Immigration.
f
X
#
f
PUBLISHERS’ CHAT
The August number of The CRISIS will be Vacation
Number. It will tell where to rest, and what it will cost, with
some consideration of the end and meaning of rest. Then
there will be a short story and the pictures will be unusually
striking.
CITIES WITHIN THE VEIL—We shall begin in
the September number a series of articles on the various cities
of the world which have a large colored population. They
will treat of the life of these thousands in an interesting way.
BABIES—The October number of The CRISIS will be
Children’s Number. This is the month of school beginnings and
family reunions. We want pictures of colored children of
eight years of age or less, especially babies. We shall give
three prizes to the three most interesting pictures. Pictures must
reach us not later than September 1 Oth.
AGENTS—Some of our agents in returning unsold
copies forget to put their names and addresses on the package.
Please be careful; remember that The CRISIS has now 315
agents distributed in every State in the Union and in several
foreign lands. They are a picked lot, taken only on careful
recommendation.
<f?
::
£->
4 •
-• -
I
i
i
4
4
<$>
I
x
■ J
T
I
I
I
4
4

150
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
The Nleetmg Place of Business and Proficiency
A professional man advertised in The Crisis for a partner with capitaL The
profession is one that offers little encouragement to colored men and jet he writes:
“Kindly stop the advertisement in The Crisis, as my want
has been filled. We appreciate the very good results (from
The Crisis) and will forward check on the 15th.”
A large corporation advertised irr The Crisis for a general manager with
capital. The wording of their advertisement eliminated all inquirers save those
with capital and experience. They write:
“We believe that one of the parties is really interested in
our proposition and will close with him in a few days. ’’
They “closed” with him and have since advertised for other high-grade help.
There is our story in a nutshell.
Those who require high-grade help should use our “Help Wanted” columns,
and those who are trained or experienced as high-grade helpers should advertise
their services where they may reach the largest number of possible employers.
HELP WANTED
TEACHERS WANTED
Music, lady, unmarried; voice, violin and piano.
Bookkeeper and stenographer.
Farm manager.
Good Salaries.
Mutual Teachers’ Agency
1335 T Street, N. W.	Washington, D. C.
RELIABLE, LIVE,
RESPONSIBLE MEN
who can sell real estate can MAKE MORE
than $200 PER MONTH acting as
AGENTS for the sale of our properties in
MUSKOGEE and TAFT, OKLAHOMA.
The real coming country where there are
opportunities and openings for all. Write
us to-day, giving your age and experience,
and we will offer you a FINE PROPOSI-
TION' WHICH WILL MAKE YOU
MONEY. Address
REEVES REALTY CO.
Department C
217 Flynn-Ames Bldg.	Muskogee, Okla.
AGENTS—Represent reliable house, 400 per
cent, profit. Selling GORDON’S Photo Pillow
Tops. High grade work. Easy sales. Big money.
Samples and catalogue free.
Luther Gordon Co. 206 N. Pifth Ave., Chicago, 111.
RELIABLE HELP at all times for the most dis-
criminating employers.
Out-of-town correspondence invited.
References thoroughly investigated.
Address:
MISS I. L. MOORMAN
463 Lenox Avenue	New York
AREN’T YOU TIRED OP WORKING AT “so much
per" piling up profits for somebody else? Would
you consider a proposition of going in businea for
yourself without any investment but your time and
talents? If so write and get our proposition.
Young and old can make money with our proposition.
THE NELSON SUPPLY CO., Harrisburg, Pa.
AGENTS make big money selling our Negro pic-
tures, size 16 x 20. “Jesus Died for Both,”
“Clinging to the Cross,” "Protecting Angel,”
“Booker T. Washington,” “Heavenward/’ "A
Mother’s Joy,” “Inspiration,” "Mama, I Lore
You,” “Jack Johnson.” Catalog free. Peoples
Portrait Co., 710 W. Madison St., Dept. 0,
Chicago, HI.
FOR SALE
An automatic addressing machine. Ad-
dresses envelopes, newspaper wrappers,
fills in statements, letters, etc. A child can
operate it. Will address S00 per hour.
Invaluable in publishing house, insurance
office or any business which handles a large
correspondence. Address
Addressing Machine, care THE CRISIS
26 Vesey Street, New York
MUTUAL TEACHERS’
AGENCY
Recommends teachers for schools; secures
employment for teachers. Blanks and
information furnished free on application.
1335 T Street, N. W. Washington, D. C.
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS
ADVERTISER
151
BOOKS
The Curse of Race Prejudice
James F. Morton, Jr., A.M., Author and Publisher.
Forceful, rational, comprehensive. An arsenal
of facts and unanswerable arguments. Invaluable
for propaganda. Read the chapter on ‘‘The Bug
bear of Social Equality,” which is a veritable eye-
opener. Thousands already sold. Agents wanted
everywhere.
PRICE 25 CENTS
Address the Author at 214 West 143d Street,
New York, N. Y.
The Power of Womanhood
A Speech by Joseph Wellington
PRICE 20 CENTS
Sold by
THE STANDARD NEWS COMPANY
131 West 53d Street, New York
AGENTS WANTED EVERYWHERE
PATENTS
L. H. LATIMER
MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEER
and
SOLICITOR OF PATENTS
65 John Street	New York
Inventions Perfected, Models and Experi-
mental Machines Designed and Constructed.
Technical Translations.
Telephone 343 John	Room 604
MUSIC
HELEN ELISE SMITH
CONCERT PIANIST
Post-Graduate of the Institute of Musical Art
Pupil of Sigismund Stojowsky
Teacher of Piano, Theory. Ear-training, etc.
224 EAST 86TH STREET, NEW YORK CITY
Composer	ART. NAYLOR	Playwright
Original songs and acts written to order.
Music set to words, words set to music.
Acts and songs revised. Correspondence solicited.
Terms reasonable. 830 S. 3d St., Springneld, 111.
REGALIA
A RACE ENTERPRISE
Manufacturing Badges, Banners and Sup-
plies for all Fraternal and Church Societies.
Catalogue upon request.
CENTRAL REGALIA CO.
Jos. L. Jones, Pres.
N. E. Cor. 8th and Plum Streets
Cincinnati, Ohio
Mention Th
REAL ESTATE
Valuable Texas Lands
For Sale
Large tracts of farm land in the best localities
of the State for sale at very flattering prices.
Small tracts of good lands suitable for farming,
truck, fruits and any domestic product. We have
for sale a number of large farms already in cultiva-
tion, good houses an ’ barns, wells, and nice pasture
landj, which can be obtained at reasonable rates.
City property a specialty. Business lots in the best
part of the city, improved and unimproved. Large
lots suitable for factory property with switch
facilities.
No investment can be more valuable than an in-
vestment in Texas real estate. Lands are becoming
so valuable that they are doubling themselves in
value in less than a year’s time. For any invest-
ment in Texas property, write T. B. Madison Real
Estate Company, 2415 Elm Street, Dallas, Texas.
To Colored People
T70E SALE—We have houses from $1,000 to
"	$30,000. Our city is the capital of Ohio^ and
a great manufacturing center—plenty of work, a
good place to locate for business. Can sell you 3
house for $50. $100 to $500 down, balance like
rent. For investment and speculating houses or
business places, $1,000 to $5,000 down, balance on
long time payment. Farm land prices from SI.000
to $10,000 up. Any of these are in good locations.
Write for further information.
THIS IS A COLORED ENTERPRISE.
EDWARD A. SHANKLIN
Real Estate
1218^ ML Vernon Avc.	Coluabos, Ohio
MOVING
Telephone 4214 Greeley
BRANIC’S EXPRESS
PACKING AND SHIPPING
ANDREW J. BRANIC
Formerly Manager Virginia Transfer Company
459 SEVENTH AVENUE	New York City
Orders bv mail or 'phone receive promnt attention
TRUNKS STORED 25c. PER MONTH
Official Expressman for the C. V. B. A.
UNDERTAKERS
Telephone Columbus 3935	Open All Night
RODNEY DADE & BROS.
Undertakers and Embalmers
Notary Public
Funeral Parlor and Chapel Free.
Licensed Lady Embalmer	Prompt Service
266 West 53d Street	New York, N. Y.
Between Broadway and Sth Avenue
____________SCHOOLS______________
Learn Algebra or
Shorthand Writing
During your spare time. Complete course: either
one by mail, $14.00: book furnished. $2.00 down
and then $1.00 a month until paid. We can accom-
modate 200 by mail.
PERKINS SEMINARY
320 S. 10th Street	Birmingham, Ala.
Crisis.
152
ADVERTISER
THE CRISIS
This Beautifully Ornamented
Fifteen-Year Guaranteed
Gold-Filled Pencil and Box
of quality A leads sent to any
address, postage prepaid, on receipt
of
ONE DOLLAR
We also have the same pencil at
the same price in guaranteed sterling
silver.
For the lady’s purse or chatelaine.
For the gentleman’s watch charm
or guard.
Fifteen-year guaranteed gold or
silver for $1. Write
Stiippar-Nowell Co.
Box 25, Station J New York City
KELSEY’S
Etimap. Hair Goods and
Hair Preparations
Have stood the test for years. All
the latest styles in Braids, Transfor-
mations, Puffs, Toupees, Wigs, etc.,
carefully matched to a sample of your
hair, and beautifully made. Only the
best hair used in manufacturing.
KELSEY’S Hair Grower and Dress-
ing, made of the purest Hair and
Scalp foods, relieves the Scalp of all
of the many diseases for which it is
subject, causing the Hair to become
soft and healthy, and POSITIVELY
prevents its falling out.
Puffs, Braids and Transformations,
$1 up.
Hair Grower and Dressing, $1.
Send sample of hair for price quota-
tion.
S. A. & A. C. KELSEY
328 Lenox Avenue	New York City
BEAUTIFUL ART EXHIBIT
Miss Cora Van Schoick is conducting a sale and
exhibit of unusual interest at the WHITE BOSE
MISSION, 217 East 86th Street, New York.
There is on snle hand-painted china and pillow
tops, hand-made opera hags, pin cushions and
novelties. These hand creations are suggestive for
gifts and interior decorations.
Telephone 3253 Harlem
CARPET CLEANING
Cleaners and Renovators
For Particular People
New York Careful Cleaning Bureau
12 West 135th Street
We make a specialty of cleaning and renovating
carpets, rugs, portieres and upholstered furniture;
we also vacuum clean in the home. We are not
the largest carpet cleaner in the warld, but abso-
lutely the most careful in every detail.
SHAMPOOING CARPETS AND BUGS OUB
SPECIALTY
$65.00
A value unequaled. Sold on
$1.00 Profit Margin. Write
for prices and other styles.
Send for catalog.
C. R. Patterson £? Sons
GREENFIELD, OHIO
Largest Negro carriage concent in the United States
WIGINGTON & BELL
Architects
Karbach Block	Omaha, Neb.
'Phone 2877 Lenox
White Rose Working Girls* Home
217 East 86th Street
Bet. Second and Third Avenues
Pleasant temporary lodgings for working girls,
with privileges, at reasonable rates. The Home
solicits order* for working dresses, aprons, etc.
Address; .
MBS. FRANCES E. KEYSEE, Supt.
PATTERNS 1 PATTERNS'.!
Exclusive creations of Madame M. Beck, the well-
known Dressmaker and Designer.
Particular dressers and dressmakers will wait to
see these new designs, which will be one of our
new features beginning with the August number.
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
153
Underwood
Standard Typewriter
The regular correspondence machines.
Models No. 4 and No. 5, are the same in
all respects except Model No. 5 has four
extra keys for fractions and special char-
acters. The UNDERWOOD is the most
popular correspondence typewriter in the
world. Its sales exceed those of any other
machine.
“The Machine You Will
Eventually Buy.”
Underwood Typewriter Co.
INCORPORATED
Underwood Building	New' York
PAMPHLETS
Published by
The National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People
1.	African Civilization: By M. D. Mac-
lean. Price 2 cents.
2.	The Brain of the American Negro:
By Burt G. Wilder. Price 20 cents.
3.	Social Control: By Jane Addams, of
Hull House. Price 1 cent.
4.	The Negro as a Soldier: By Briga-
dier-General Burt, U. S. A. Price 5 cents.
5.	Leaving It to the South: An experi-
ence and some conclusions by Charles
Edward Russell. Price 5 cents.
6.	Views of a Southern Woman:	By
Adelene Moffat. Price 2 cents.
Address
The Crisis Book Department
26 VESEY STREET	NEW YORK |
PERSONAL CARDS
Ten Years with Dr. D. C. White
Telephone 7139 Morningside
DR. JAMES A. BANKS
DENTIST
204 WEST 133d STREET, NEW YORK
Porcelain, Crown and Bridge Work a Specialty
Pure Nitrous-Oxide Gas Administered
J. DOUGLAS WETMORE
Attorney and Connselor-at-Law
5 Beekman Street (Temple Court)
New York City
Tel. 6222 Cortlandt	Cable Address. Judowei
FREDERICK L. McGHEE
Attorney and Connselor-at-Law
Union Block. Fourth and Cedar Streets
St. Paul, Minn.
General Practice	Notary Public
WILLIAM R. MORRIS
Attorney and Connselor-at-Law
1020 Metropolitan Life Building
Minneapolis, Minn.
Real Estate and Probate Matters a Specialty
ROBERT B. BARCUS
Attorney and Connselor-at-Law
Notary Public
Office: Room 502, Eberly Block.	Columbus. O.
B.	S. SMITH
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Offices: Suite 610, Sykes Block.
Minneapolis. Minn.
GEORGE W. MITCHELL
Attoruey-at-Law
903 Walnut Street
Philadelphia. Pa.
Tel. 2026 Fort Hill	Cable Address, Epben
EDGAR P. BENJAMIN
Attorney and Counsellor-at-Law
34 SCHOOL STREET	Boston. Mass. * 21
Telephone Connection
W. Ashbie Hawkins	George W. F. McMeehen
HAWKINS & McMECHEN
Attorneys-at-Law
21 East Saratoga Street
Mention The Crisis.
Baltimore. Md.
154
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
GOOD COMMISSION PAID TO
ORGANIZERS. JOIN NOW!
HOME OFFICE:
110}4 Colfax Ave., South Bend, Ind.
Too, Too ! Too, Too I Too, Too
SOMETHING NEW
The Afro-American
Order of Orioles
With a Graduated Scale of Endowment
For particulars write G. W. BLAND, S. P.
S. A. KELSEY, Pres. DR. WM. J. GARTER, Chiropodist. MME. A. C. KELSEY, Gen’l In«tr.
The KeBsey School of Beauty Culture and Hair Dressing
328 Lenox Avenue, New York City
Manicuring, Shampooing, Hair Dressing, Beauty Culture, Hair Making and Chir-
opody scientifically taught. Day and night sessions. Instructions given to pupils in
their own homes if desired. Diplomas awarded. Send for booklet-directory of recently
graduated students.
Make Your Spare Moments
Profitable
The continued growth of The CRISIS necessitates the extension of
our field force, and we need representatives in all cities to establish
sub-agencies and look after renewals.
€]] If you can spare a few hours each month to look after our interests
in your city, we can make you a proposition that will interest you. The
work is dignified as well as profitable.
--------- = ADDRESS BUSINESS MANAGER	==
THE CRISIS, 26 Vesey Street, NEW YORK
Mention The Crisis.
1The TESTING FIRE
By ALEXANDER CORKEY
Author of “The Victory of Allan Rutledge”
Is the Sanest Story Ever Written on the Race Problem
It is the first story ever written on the race
question, by a white man, that is not antagonistic
to the colored race,
EVERY FREEDMAN SHOULD READ IT
Through its pages runs a sweet romance, but
it is more than a love story. It is a novel of
uplift, accomplishment and promise.
No One Interested in the Race Question Should Miss It
Price $1.25 Net; Postage 10 Cents Extra
The H. K. FLY COMPANY, Publishers
NEW YORK CITY
This book is for sale in the Book Department of THE CRISIS,
26 Vesey Street, New York
YOUR LOCAL PRINTER
may be able to do your ordinary printing, but your business and
personal stationery, wedding invitations, calling cards, pamphlets, etc.,
require that particular attention which our experience and facilities
afford you.
As first-class printers in New York City, we are subject to the
most exacting demands, since new designs and type formations must be
constantly originated to satisfy a large clientele of most discriminating
patrons.
We refer you to Mr. Conde Nast, of Vogue; n>e print The CRISIS.
Write for samples and special quotations.
ROBERT N. WOOD, Printing and Engraving
202 EAST 99th STREET	NEW YORE
’Phone 6667 Lenox
Mention The Crisis.
This magnificent hotel, replete with
modern improvement, claims distinction Tor Its"
,	„---- ----- every modern improvement, claims distinction lor its locanou,
direct Southern exposure. Superlative in construction, appointments, service and refined patronage.
Endorsed by leading representative citizcus.
Concerts daily by the Abyssinia orchestra. Garage, bathhouses, tonnis, otc., on premises. Special
attention given to ladies and children. Literature and information mailed upon request.
E. W. DALE, Cape May, N. J„ Owner and Proprietor
“HALF A MAN”
The Status of the Negro in New York
By
MARY WHITE OVINGTON
With a foreword by Dr. Franz Boas of Columbia University
Chapter I. How the colored people won their civil and political rights.
Chapters II. and III. The Negro tenement and the life of the poor.
Chapters IV. and V. How the colored man earns his living, with a full descrip-
tion of the professions; the ministry, the stage.
Chapter VI. The colored woman, her discouragements and successes.
Chapter VII. A vivid description of the life of the well-to-do Negroes.
Chapter VIII. The Negro in politics in New York.
Chapter IX. The author's personal views on the race question.
Price $1.00; by mail, $1.12.
LONGMANS, GREEN & CO., PusMisSiiers, NEW YORK
This book is for sale in the Book Department of The Crisis, 26 Vesey St., N. Y.

Mc-ntion The Ckjsis.

VACATION
NUMBER
THE CRISIS
Volume Four	AUGUST, 1912	Number Four
Our Heroes of Destiny
Honorables Frederick Douglass, John M. Langston, Blanche K. Bruce, Paul Laurence
Dunbar and Booker T. Washington
I desire to thank tho readers
This illustration is protected by copyright. Any infringement
will be prosecuted
“OUR HEROES 01? DESTINY"
TESTIMONIALS
of THE CRISIS and my large
number of friends for their
very enthusiastic support and
appreciation of the Special
Edition of “OUR HEROES OF
DESTINY.”
POPULAR EDITION
While tho orders for the
Special Edition have been most
gratifying, thero has been a
constant demand for a chenper
one.
In response to these numer-
ous requests I nm glad to an-
nounce thut a Popular Edition
is on the press. In producing
this Edition thero is neither a
sacrifice of quality nor work-
manship, as 1 was fortunate in
securing a specially processed
paper, which will defy even the
eyes of nn expert in distinguish-
ing it from the Special Edition.
The price of the Popular
Edition is fifty cents, postpaid.
£3FTho Special Edition, which Is on
JAPAN VELLUM. will, by no
means. Ik> discontinued, and thO'C
of tho parUcuIar sort who deJ o
may Imvo ono forwarded to them for
One Dollar, postpaid.
INDIVIDUAL PORTRAITS
The Individual Portraits are
beautiful gravures, 11 by 14
inches, handsomely mounted
and ready for fruming. Price,
fifty cents.
A partial list of those now
ready includes:
Frcderiok Douglass
Booker T. Washington
Mrs. Booker T. Washington
Blancho K. Bruce
John M. Langston
W. E. B. Du Bois
Paul Laurence Dunbar
Rov. C. T. Walker
Judson W. Lyons
T. Thomas Fortune
Rev. Dr. R. C. Ransom, New York City, says:
“Your splendid production of ‘Our Heroes
of Destiny* marks the era of perpetuating
characteristic and faithful likenesses of the
famous men and women of our own race, to
be handed down to younger generations, inspir-
ing them with ideals which if carefully nurtured
in their young lives will in their mature ages
prove excellent examples of pure and dignified
manhood and womanhood.
“No home where there is a child should be
without a copy of this excellent work, and no
parent that feels the love and loyalty of higher
race development should fail to teach the
children of their homes the meaning of the
lives of these five men.*’
Mrs. B. K. Bruce, Washington, D. C., says:
“I am indeed glad to say that ‘Our Heroes
of Destiny* is the most creditable work of
art that has yet been produced of and for our
people. The life likeness of the entire group
is exceedingly good. It is a fitting memorial
worthy to be in every home.
“If we are to perpetuate the memories of
our own great men, it must be by keeping
their portraits ever before our youth, ana
familiarizing them with the true meaning of
their lives.*'
AGENTS—Here is a proposition that will net you a substantial monthly income,
whether you devote all or spare time to it. My extensive advertising; creat-
ing a demand for these pictures, insures quick sales, and their superior quality
makes each purchaser a satisfied customer. YOU would be interested to
know how I train my agents by correspondence and make them successful
salesmen. Write for particulars.
C. M. BATTEY,
ARTIST AND
322 Mott Avenue
PUBLISHER
New York City
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS
A RECORD OF THE DARKER RACES
Published by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, at
26 Vesey Street, New York City.
W. E. BURGHARDT DU BOIS. Editor
FRANK M. TURNER. Circulation Manager
ALBON L. HOLSEY. Advertising Manager
t OSWALD GARRISON VILLARD
~	. -l .• J J. MAX BARBER
Contributing J CHARLES EDWARD RUSSELL
Editors	) w s BRAITHWAITE
l KELLY MILLER
Subscription: $1.00 a year; 50 cents for six months. Foreign subscriptions, 25 cents extra. Subscriptions
to begin with current issue or changes of address must reach us before the 15th of the previous month.
CONTENTS FOR AUGUST
PAGE
ALONG THE COLOR LINE..........................    163	.
MEN OF THE MONTH................................  170
OPINION ......................................... 174
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE................................ 177
EDITORIAL ....................................... 180
WHAT TO READ..................................... 183
MARY DUNLOP MACLEAN.............................. 184
VACATION DAYS.................................... 186
THE SERVANT. By Fenton Johnson................... 189
LESSONS FROM RUSSIA. By	I.	M. Rubinow........... 191
THE BURDEN....................................... 196
HISTORIC DAYS IN AUGUST.	By	L. M. Hershaw........ 197
Agents wanted who can furnish references. Entered as second-class matter in the| P. O. at N. Y. City
160
THE CRISIS
ADVERTISER
OF INTEREST TO
VOCAL STUDENTS
Tone Placing and
Voice Development
Practic.il method of Binging for
daily practice, huned upon artistic
principles, together with a care-
fully prepared number of exercises,
forming a comprehensive, progres-
sive and self-exnlained course in
voice building, which constitute the
technical side of the vocal art.
Comment from the world-renowned conductor of
the Paulist Choir of Chicago, 111., whose choir has
just received the lirst prize awarded at the Hing-
ing Contest held in Paris on May 25, 1012:
"Dear Mr. Tinsley:
“i take great pleasure in commending your
very useful and succinctly written book on 'Tone-
Placing and Vnice-iJcvelopmcnt.' Your own appre-
ciation of the psychology of singing and the funda-
mental principles of tin: art you have cleverly r.e-
duced to a simple system.
“Cordially yours,
'' Fattier WILLIAM .J. FINN, C. S. I\.
“Lireclor Puulisl Choristers of Chicago.''
Price $1. Address the publisher:
PEDRO T.
6448 Drcxel Avenue
TINSLEY
CHICAGO, ILL.
or Clayton F Hummy, 04-00 K. Van Ituren St.
• Stem way Hall Bldg.;, and Lyon & Jlealy, Adam*
and Wabash Sts., Chicago, III.
i
The
djunest
of Site
Silver
Fleeee
& NOVEL
by
W. E. BURGHAMBT
DU BOIS
Drawings \>y
H.	S. DE LAY
Here is a story of the darker world
in the South and in Washington, D.
C.	It is dramatic in style and ab-
sorbing in interest and expresses the
feeling of colored people about them-
selves and their own problems; at the
same time it shows how both black
folk and white arc caught in the
power of King Cotton.
AT AIX BOOKSTORES
PRICE $1.35 NET
A. C. McCLURG & CO.
New York Chicago San Francisco
e
The NEGRO AND THE
ELECTIVE FRANCHISE
No. II. Occasional Papers
AMERICAN NEGRO ACADEMY
An Opinion Worth While.
“I find more patriotism and statesmanship
in this pamphlet by colored men than in
all the contributions made on the subject
by white men since the Civil War."
A. E. Pillsbury.
Inclose 35 cent* to
J . W. CROMWELL
1439 Swann Street, N. W. Washington. D. C.
PUBLICATIONS
A. M. E. Book Concern Philadelphia, Pa.
THE POEMS or PHILLIS WHEATLEY.
Reprint of first edition 1773; a valuable book.
Price. $1.00.
THE NEGRO PROBLEM. An analysis: What
It Jh Not and Whut It la; by It. K. Wright, Jr.
In pamphlet form, 15 contB.
THE COLORED REGULARS. By T G. Steward.
Chaplain U. 8. A., retired. Price, $1.50.
EVOLUTION AND LIFE. By Algernon B. Jack-
son, Burgeon-in-chief Mercy Hospital. Price, 75
cents.
THE NEGRO IN PENNSYLVANIA. A 8tudy :n
Economic History. By R. R. Wright, Jr., Sometime
ReKeareh Fellow in Sociology in the University of
PeunMylvania. Price, Paper, $2.00; Cloth, 32.50.
Address
A. M. E. BOOK CONCERN
A31 Pine Street.	Philadelphia. Pa.
Atlanta University
Studies of the
Negro Problems
15 Monographs. Sold Separately.
•	Address:
A G. DILL
Atlanta University, Atlanta. Ga.
GREAT CALAMITY IN
PHILADELPHIA SOCIETY
"Who’s Who in Philadelphia”
Latest and greatest book of the season
Biographic sketches and cuts of leading
colored citizens, with illustrations of their
principal institutions, and other valuable
information. 208 pages. By Charles Fred.
White, author of “PLEA OF THE NEGRO
SOLDIER” and a hundred other poems.
Introduction by Dr. R. R. Wright, Jr.
PRICE, $2.00
Chas. Fred White
1508 Lombard Street, Philadelphia
Crisis.
Mention Tit
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
161
... .
FORWARD
MARCH YOUR SON OFF TO
Wilberforce University
The only school in the country for Negro
Youth which has a Military Department
equipped by the National Government, and
commanded by a detailed United States Army
Officer
DEPARTMENTS
MILITARY	SCIENTIFIC
NORMAL	TECHNICAL
COMMERCIAL THEOLOGICAL
CLASSICAL	MUSICAL
PREPARATORY
Banking taught by the actual operations
in the Students' Savings Bank. Twelve In-
dustries. ISO acres of beautiful campus, Ten
Buildings. • Healthful surroundings, excep-
tional community. Maintained in part by the
8tate of Ohio which supplies facilities for the
thorough training of teachers.
Fall term begins September, 1912. Write
for Catalog.
w. s. SCARBOROUGH. President
WM. A. JOINER. Superintendent, C. N. I.
Department.
Address all communications to
BOX 38	WILBERFORCE, OHIO
Atlanta University
Is beautifully located in the City of Atlanta, Ga.
The courses of study include High School, Nor-
mal School and College, with manual training
and domestic science. Among the teachers are
graduates of Yale, Harvard, Dartmouth, Smith
and Wellesley. Forty-one years of successful
work have been completed. Students come from
all parts of the Sonth. Graduates are almost
universally successful.
For further information address
President EDWARD T. WARE
ATLANTA. GA.
Knoxville College
Beautiful Situation, Healthful Location
The Best Moral and Spiritual Environment
A Splendid Intellectual Atmosphere
Noted for Honest and Thorough Work
Offers full courses in the following departments:
College. Normal, High School, Grammar School and
Industrial.
Good water, steam heat, electric lights, good
drainage. Expenses very reasonable.
Opportunity for Self-help.
Fall Term Begins September, 1912.
For information address
President R. W. McGranahan
KNOXVILLE, TENN.
Uirginia Union University
RICHMOND, VA.
A College Department, of high standards and
modern curriculum.
A Theological Department, with all subjects
generally required in the best theological seminaries
An Academy, with manual training, giving a
preparation for life or for college.
The positive moral and religious aim of the
school, its high standards of entrance and of class
work, its fine new buildings and well-equipped
laboratories and library prepare a faithful student
for a life of wide usefulness.
GEORGE RICE HOVEY, President
Fisk University
NASHVILLE, TENN.
The largest colored college in the South.
A new department of sociology and social
service. A notable equipment in land and
buildings. Endorsed by the General Edu-
cation Board. For information address
GEORGE A. GATES, President
Mention The Crisis.
162
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
■The Autobiography of an Ex-Colored Man
—	ANONYMOUS	—
A book unique in the annals of the Negro race. As a document it
reads more strangely than fiction.
Professor Charles Alexander, the well-known lecturer, says of the
book:
It should have a wide reading among the Negroes of this country because it
tells the story of a soul-life of the race in an inimitable manner, by a member of
the race who has lived two lives, or in two worlds, the black and the white.”
Although just off the press, the book has already created much in-
terest and the attention of the press, secular and religious, Negro and
white, has at once centered upon it. We quote briefly three well-known
papers:
A unique publication of surpassing interest to our people.”—Cleveland Gazette.
An intensely interesting and exceedingly able portrayal of the experiences of a
man in an exceptional situation, and with very unusual opportunities to observe
the condition of the colored race in this country/’—Zion's herald.
. ^'he most wonderful story of self-revelation, either in fact or fiction, that has
been published in many years.”—Springfield (Mass.) Union.
210 pages; handsomely bound in cloth; $1.30 postpaid
SHERMAN, FRENCH COMPANY, Publishers
6 BEACON STREET, BOSTON
Avery College Training Schools
NORTH SIDE. PITTSBURGH. PA.
A superior training school for young colored women, thoroughly instructing
its students as a means of self-support in dressmaking, cutting and drafting, domestic
science, music, nurse training, millinery, and an intermediate English course. This
institution is under the influence of no religious denomination, is the oldest endowed
chartered Negro institution in America. The accommodations in its dormitory,
which is in charge of a competent matron, are excelled by no colored institution
in this country.
The hospital department offers the same course as the large hospitals of the
State of Pennsylvania, fully equipped with its operating rooms, diet kitchen and
ambulance service. The course requires three years’ lectures on general nursing,
anatomy, ethics, surgery, obstetrics, asepsis, antiseptics, gynecology, pediatrics, eye,
nose, throat, materia medica, therapeutics and dietetics under a staff of white and
colored physicians. Catalogues now ready.
Address all communications to
JOSEPH D. MAHONEY, Secretary
Box 154	North Side, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS
Vol,
Four
AUGUST, 1912
Number F
ALONG
COLOR LINE
our
ECONOMICS.
A CC0RD1NG to the Coming Nation, at
the second annual convention of the
Brotherhood of Timber Workers, nearly one
hundred delegates were present, representing
local unions in the States of Texas, Louisiana.
Arkansas and Florida. Fraternal delegates
representing the Farmers’ Union and the
Industrial Workers of the World were pres-
ent. On every issue the convention was pro-
gressive to the core, and was an epoch-mak-
ing event in the history of the Southern
working class.
No longer did the bugaboo of "nigger
domination” disturb the workers, and they
seemed to have forgotten entirely that such
a thing as a "damned foreigner” ever ex-
isted. Native-born whites, Italians, Mexi-
cans and Negroes all stood together in one
solid phalanx of workers fighting against
the peon kings of the South, who are among
the worst exploiters of labor on the face of
the globe to-day.
From a trustworthy source we learn that
colored and white timber workers have been
organized in mixed locals, and this despite
the fact that in some of the Southern States
the laws‘prohibit public gatherings of black
and white.
<3 Despite the law prohibiting "night riding
and other riotous conspiracies,” written
notice was given the Negroes employed by
J. H. Whipple and Joe Stidham, planters
in Craighead County, Ark., to leave the
county.
The residents objected to the Negroes be-
ing brought into the community to work, an<J
boldly signed their names to notices that
were served upon them to depart "instanter
and never return.” The Negroes reported
the matter to Whipple and Stidham, who
laid the proposition before the prosecuting
attorney, being determined, if possible, to
protect their labor from unlawful intimida-
tion. Forty-six arrests followed.
The farmers say they were unable to ob-
tain white labor, and in order to protect
their interests imported Negro labor. The
officers announce that they will see to it that
the Negroes are not harmed “so long as they
attend to their own business.”
Nine of the forty-six men arrested were
released by the justice of the peace to whom
the case was referred, it having been proven
that a few names were signed by persons
without authority, while others signing were
mere boys. Of the thirty-seven bound over
in $500 bail to await the action of the grand
jury in November, two are ministers, one a
deputy sheriff and one a constable. All the
defendants gave bond.
<1 Secretary of Agriculture Wilson an-
nounces that during the present year the
farmers’ co-operative demonstration work of
the Bureau of Plant Industry will have
thirty-two Negro agents in the field.
CJ The United Garage Company, capitalized
at $15,000, is the name of a new corporation
which has recently been organized in Boston.
Its object is to build, maintain and lease
164
THE CRISIS
buildings for the storage and keeping and
repairing of automobiles and other motor
vehicles, and also to sell and operate the same.
A tract of land has been purchased on
.Miuon Street, Hack Bay, at a cost of
$0,000, on which to put the necessary build-
ings of the plant.
*2 Another recent financial institution added
to the fifty-odd banks already in successful
operation among the Negroes of this country
is the Lincoln State Savings Bank, corner
of .*5lst and State Streets, Chicago, 111. It
opened its doors for business the morning
of .May (i under very favorable conditions.
<jj One thousand four hundred Negroes are
employed in the Treasury Department, re-
ceiving salaries that aggregate more than
.$1,01)0,000 yearly.
*2 The thirteenth annual meeting of the
National Negro Business League will be held
fci Chicago Wednesday, Thursday and Fri-
day, August 21, 22 and 2)5. The local
Negro Business League of Chicago has se-
cured the Seventh Regiment armory for the
sessions.
EDUCATION.
HP HE Hampton Negro conference took
place on July 17 and 18 at Hampton
Institute. The needs of Negro rural life,
progress in hygiene and sanitation, the min-
ister and the community were among the
subjects discussed.
•3! The problem of health and the decreasing
birth rate were thoroughly discussed at the
Tuskegee summer school conference.
The summer school at Nashville, Tenn.,
of the Agricultural and Industrial State
Normal School recently erected by the State
of Tennessee for the benefit of Negroes is
proving popular with the colored people of
the State and country. Fully 250 teachers
from all sections of this State and from
Alabama, Mississippi, Arkansas, Georgia,
Oklahoma, North Carolina and Missouri are
attending the summer school.
»
The thirteenth annual session of the State
summer school for Negro teachers at the
Agricultural and Mechanical College, Greens-
boro, N. C., opened with the largest and
most representative attendance of Negro
teachers ever assembled at the college.
Dr. W. E. B. Du Bois lectured during
July at the summer school at West Virginia
Institute and at the National Religious
Training School at Durham, X. C.
Dr. Charles II. Park hurst of New York
spoke at the commencement exercises of the
National Religious Training School at Dur-
ham, N. C. He laid great emphasis upon
vigor and robustness of character, which he
declared were “made, not horn.” Hundreds
of teachers are attending the Chautauqua at
Durham, and Dr. James H. Dillard and
Professor Kelly .Miller have been among the
lecturers.
<3 The Negro Teachers’ Institute which met
at -Montgomery, Ala., is obligatory for teach-
ers in the public schools of the city and the
county. All such teachers must attend for
four days or have their State license with-
drawn.
At the thirtieth annual meeting of the
Georgia Association of Teachers in Colored
Schools, Professor P. C. Parks, director of
agriculture at Clark University, made a
strong plea for agricultural education.
“Where the people are most prosperous and
agriculture is at its best,” he said, “the
farmers own the land they till. In Denmark
eighty-nine out of every one hundred of the
farmers own the land they cultivate; in
Germany eighty-seven out of every hundred
own the land they cultivate; and in Belgium
eighty out of every hundred of the farmers
own the land they till. But the reverse is
true with the farmers in Georgia; sixty-five
out of every hundred farmers rent their land,
and eighty-five out of every hundred of the
Negro farmers rent the land they cultivate,
and seventy-five out of every hundred of
these renters move every year. A man can-
not be a good farmer if he moves every
year because it takes two years, and some-
times three, to grow some of the profitable
crops.”
Professor Parks told of the formation of
the Atlanta Federation of Schools for the
Improvement of Negro Country Life. “The
schools which are thus far in this movement,”
he said, “are Atlanta University, Clark Uni-
versity, Atlanta Baptist College, Spelman
Seminary, Gammon Theological Seminary
and Morris Brown College.
“A twofold purpose is stated in the con-
stitution of this organization:	First, to
ALONG THE
COLOR LINE
165
stimulate and encourage self-help among the
Negroes; second, to co-operate with the peo-
ple of the State and of the South in the im-
provement of farms and farm life.
“One immediate line of procedure deter-
mined upon is the forming of corn clubs
among the Negro boys of the State. The
results of only a few weeks’ work show nine
counties definitely organized with an enroll-
ment of 322 boys as active contestants and
three or four more counties in the process of
organization with good promise of success.
“It is further proposed as a result of this
work that a corn show be held this fall in
Atlanta as a demonstration of the results
secured by this movement. The federation
has provided $200 to be given in prizes to
the boys who are successful contestants in
producing the largest amount of corn on an
acre of ground.”
<3 Another large industrial school for colored
hoys and girls, modeled closely after Tuske-
gee Institute, has been started near St. Louis.
Its president is Dr. W. Alexander D.
Venerable, a colored graduate of the Univer-
sity of Kansas and the Kansas Agricultural
School. The board of trustees is composed
of well-known white business men in St.
Louis. Afier investigating the plans for the
new school, the Carnegie Foundation, it is
reported, has promised to give $100,000 to
the school when it has raised its first
$100,000. Mr. Adolphus Busch of St. Louis,
Mr. Julius Rosenwald of Chicago and others
have contributed generously toward its
endowment.
<] Mother Superior Katherine Drexel,
founder of the Sisters of the Blessed Sac-
rament for Indians and Colored People, and
a member of the Drexel family of Phila-
delphia, will establish a parochial school for
Negro children in the Harlem Negro colony
in New York. The school is to be on 132d
Street, between Lenox and Seventh Avenues,
and will be run by Mother Drexel out of the
income of $8,000,000 left to her by her
father.
<3 After a lengthy and at times acrimonious
debate, the House of Representatives re-
cently passed a bill conveying to the board of
education of New Hanover County, N. C.,
thirty-four acres of land in the city of Wil-
mington for the erection of an industrial
school for Negroes.
POLITICAL.
CJ E NAT OR FRANCIS G. NEWLAND of
^ Nevada submitted to the committee on
resolutions at the Democratic convention at
Baltimore a constitutional amendment that
would disfranchise the Negro, and bar the
yellow races from entrance to the country,
except for temporary purposes.
“Experience having demonstrated,” reads
the plank, “the folly of investing an inferior
race with which amalgamation is undesirable
with the right of suffrage and the folly of
admitting to our shores peoples differing in
color with whom amalgamation is undesir-
able, we declare that our constitution should
be so amended as to confine the right of
suffrage in the future to people of the white
race and we favor a law prohibiting the
immigration to this country of all peoples
other than those of the white race, except
for temporary purposes of education, travel
or commerce.”
<3 Charles Edward Russell is nominated for
governor of New York on the Sociajist
ticket. Mr. Russell is one of the founders of
the National Association for the Advance-
ment of Colored People and a contributing
editor of The Crisis.
CJ The delegation to the National Independ-
ent League in Philadelphia refused to adopt
the report of the executive committee con-
demning Theodore Roosevelt and President
Taft as unfriendly to the true interests of
the colored race, and asking the colored popu-
lation of the United States “to stand back
of the presidential candidate most available
to the defeat of the ex-President and the man
who was his Secretary of War at the time
of the Brownsville affair.” :
Upon this refusal a number of the dele-
gates bolted.
The bolters are made up of some of the
charter members of the league and hold
olfices in the organization. Among them are
J. M. Waldron. Washington, the first presi-
dent of the league, and its national organizer
for three terms; William M. Trotter, Boston,
editor of the Guardian, the official organ of
the league; William D. Johnson, second Wee-
president; Byron Gunner, New York State,
fourth vice-president; Emory T. Morris,
Cambridge. Mass., national committeeman.
They are all charter members.
The league has decided to appoint a com-
mittee to wait upon the three presidential
166
THE
CRISIS
candidates and to put the following ques-
tions to them:
“Are you in favor of equal rights and
opportunities for colored citizens, and will
you contend for them if elected?”
“Are you opposed to lynching and law-
lessness, and will you, if elected, labor to
make lynching a crime against the national
constitution punishable by the federal gov-
ernment ?”
“Will you use every effort to have Jim
Crow car laws and disfranchisement amend-
ments to the State constitutions abolished?”
Representatives of the National Colored
Democratic League, an organization of col-
ored Democratic clubs, with members as far
west as Colorado, and as far south as Mis-
sissippi, met in conference at Baltimore June
25, and remained in the city until the ad-
journment of the national Democratic con-
vention. Bishop Alexander Walters of the
A. M. E. Zion Church, president of the
league, presided.
At the national Democratic convention
Bishop Walters and Mr. Robert N. Wood,
representing the New York members, and the
Rev. J. Milton Waldron, representing the
National Independent Political League, pre-
sented the following resolution from the
Democratic platform of 1872, asking that it
be inserted# as a plank in the present
Democratic platform:
“We recognize the equality of all men be-
fore the law, and hold that it is the duty
of the government in its dealing with all the
people to mete out equal and exact justice
to all, of whatever nativity, race, color or
persuasion, religion or politics.”
Bishop Walters, who read the resolution,
was received with every mark of courtesy
by the resolutions committee. He spoke for
five minutes, urging the necessity for a really
Democratic government and the breaking
dowTn of all barriers which would keep the
two races from a common effort to uplift
humanity.
Rev. Mr. Waldron said that the colored
men he represented realized the time was ripe
for a Democratic victory and urged the in-
sertion of a plank in the platform deploring
lynching.
Mr. Wood prefaced his remarks by saying
that he was not speaking for the colored man
but for bis country. He addressed himself
especially to the Southern members in his
effort to show them that by retarding the
colored man’s progress they were really
working an injury to themselves. He empha-
sized the point that the colored American
wanted no favors, no privileges, simply
“justice.”
PERSONAL.
TIT OWARD P. DREW of Springfield,
■“* *** Mass., owing to a sprained thigh
muscle, was unable to run in the finals of the
100-metre flat race at the recent Olympic
games.
HOWARD P. DREW
Hoping against hope that he might be
able to start, Drew donned his running togs
and went out to the starting post, but had
to be helped back.
“Tough luck,” said a well-known Ameri-
can, standing nearby, and many who heard
him answered: “It is.”
Drew was a warm favorite in this event.
Michael J. Murphy, official trainer of the
American Olympic team, said: “It was un-
fortunate’ that the little colored boy Drew
broke down. But for that unfortunate hap-
pening I believe lie would have proven
America’s greatest sprinter since the days of
Wefers. I say this without underestimating
Craig’s fine running.”
ALONG THE
COLOR LINE
167
The Reverend Henry L. Phillips, D. D.,
of Philadelphia, has been appointed arch-
deacon for church extension among the col-
ored race in the diocese of Pennsylvania, the
first appointment of its kind north of Mason
and Dixon’s line.
Dr. Phillips’ entire ministry has been spent
in Philadelphia.
THE GHETTO.
rTr0 protest against the placing of a
Negro woman in the city jail of Topeka,
Kan., the white occupants of the cell set
fire to a mattress in the middle of the room
and nearly suffocated themselves with the
smoke before the warden heard their outcry
and opened the door.
Q A great deal of discussion has been going
on in St. Louis relative to the proposed
segregation of Negroes, and an ordinance
confining the colored people to certain sec-
tions of the city and excluding them from
other parts will be submitted shortly to the
municipal assembly.
<3 At Luling, Tex., a number of Negroes re-
ceived notice warning them either to vacate
their buildings or to leave the town perma-
nently. The notices were all written on the
same kind of paper, in the same handwriting
and signed Ax Man. Majority and Gamge
No. 25. Some of the Negroes began to move
out of their buildings immediately. The offi-
cers have the matter under investigation, but
have failed to find any clue as to who are
the guilty parties.
<3 The Dominican Congress of San Domingo
has passed an immigration law which admits
only white persons as settlers. Other immi-
grants may enter only with the consent of
the government.
CRIME.
/^\N June-25 a colored woman was lynched
at Pinehurst, Ga. An account is given
under “The Burden.”
<3 The lynching of the Negro woman who
killed her white mistress at Pinehurst, Ga.,
was deplored by President Taft. He believes
all implicated in the lynching should be
punished.
“I cannot speak too strongly of my utter
detestation of the crime of lynching,” said
the President. “I do not know the circum-
stances of the lynching of the Negro woman
at Pinehurst, Ga., but T greatly deplore it.
“I do not know any remedy for such law-
lessness except a better general enforcement
of the criminal law and the punishment of
those engaged in the lynching.”
<1 On June 13, near Rochelle, in Wilcox
County, Ga., McHenry, a Negro who
wounded a planter, C. S. Ritchie, was
lynched.
McHenry was a tenant of Ritchie’s and the
two quarreled, the Negro shooting Ritchie,
but not inflicting a serious wound.
McHenry was taken to the Ritchie home
and identified by the wounded man. Then
the mob of “leading citizens” hanged the
Negro to a tree near the Ritchie home and
cut the body to pieces with bullets.
When Ritchie was shot he was attacking
the Negro because the latter was tardy in
going to work.
<3 A Negro who has been in prison in Con-
necticut for twenty years has just been
pardoned, it having been discovered at this
late day that he was innocent of the crime
of which he was convicted. He was con-
victed on circumstantial evidence.
<J Dan. Kirk, a Negro, was set upon by six
white men at the junction of the Edenborn
and Baton Rouge and Hammond Railroads,
north of Baton Rouge. Kirk says the men
were all under the influence of liquor and
announced that they did not propose to let
any Negroes prowl around at that time of
night. They beat Kirk severely and shot him
in the neck as he fled.
<3 H. C. Matthews, a convict guard in Robe-
son County, N. C., shot and perhaps fatally
wounded an unknown Negro whom he
thought to be an escaped convict.
<1 Because he testified against white liquor
sellers in this section, which is prohibition
territory, Forest Boland, a Negro well known
in Lucedale, Miss., was shot to death by
vigilantes.
This testimony was given before the grand
jury, and the sheriff’s office is working upon
the theory that the crime was due to this
cause. The Negro, who was a prosperous
small farmer until recently, when he moved
into the town of Lucedale, generally was
regarded as a good citizen, and had given
liberally to help members of his race. It is
stated that he used every effort to prevent
168
THE
CRISIS
their being the victims of the “blind tigers,*’
so common in this section.
It is known that he went before the grand
jury with evidence against certain of these
liquor dealers. Circumstances tend to show
that late at night a message called Boland
out in front of his house. Neighbors heard
a number of shots. When Boland’s body was
found it was on the back gallery of his
house, through which ran a trail of blood.
<3 John Clark, a Negro in the county work-
house near Marshall, Tenn., was beaten to
death by the guard. Clark was passing rocks
and because he was slow in his movements
the guard struck him on the head with a
hickory stick, dealing terrific blows. Clark
after this severe beating became dazed, and
an hour later was beaten again by the guard.
The second beating resulted in his death.
<3 The San Francisco Bulletin tells the full
story of the Negro murderer, Delhante:
“When white men, mad with race hatred,
dragged an unoffending Negro lad from a
grocery wagon on the streets of Joplin, Mo.,
in a riot nine years ago, and stamped on his
head until they crushed it into a well-nigh
shapeless pulp, they did more than mutilate
a human being. They made Edward Del-
hante what he is to-day. They changed him
into an irresponsible brute, nursing a dull
hatred which, whenever the recurrent pains
in his distorted head became unbearable,
flamed into a passion for crime.
“Society has not dealt kindly with this
broken man. A Negro-hating mob’s heels
ground out the human from his brain and
made him akin to the beasts. Poverty-
stricken, friendless, colored and marked with
the brand of a felon, Delhante has been just
something to kick and curse—something to
loathe and abuse for over nine years of his
wretched existence.
“And now Delhante has come to the end.
He is sentenced to be hanged, and, strange
to cay, he seems relieved.
“a convict in San Quentin, sent there for
an unspeakable offense, he was shunned as
a degenerate, and the bitterness of his os-
tracism poisoned what was left of his man-
hood. In a delirium of hate he broke from
the ranks in the prison yard, leaped upon
William Kauffman and stabbed him to death.
Then he turned his murderous weapon upon
William Peterson and wounded him so
severely that, for a time, it was expected
that he, too, would die.”
MEETINGS.
r I ’HE fourth annual session of the Knipire
Slate Federation of Women’s Clubs was
held the first week in July in New ^ ork.
The sessions were largely attended. Among
the speakers were Dr. George K. Haynes, of
the Urban Committee; A. L. Holsey, of the
National Association for the Advancement
of Colored People, and others. The presi-
dent, Mrs. Mary B. Talbert, delivered her
annual address. With the exception of the
treasurer, the officers were all re-elected for
the ensuing year.
<3 The eleventh annual convention of the
Ohio Federation of Colored Women’s Clubs
met in Cleveland July 3, 4 and 5. Delegates
from all parts of the State were in
attendance.
<3 The twelfth annual session of the Federa-
tion of Colored Women’s Clubs of Kansas
was held in Topeka June 19 and 20. Mrs.
L. B. Harris, a former vice-president of the
federation, was made president.
<3 Meetings to be held during the months ot
August and September are as follows:
The Knights and Daughters of Tabor at
Louisville, Ky., August 27; the National
Negro Business League at Chicago, on
August 21; the Odd Fellows at Atlanta, Ga.,
September 10, and the Baptists at Houston.
Tex., September 11.
SOCIAL UPLIFT.
r | 'IIE Negro fresh-air committee of New
York is raising $10,000 for a fresh-air
and convalescent home for colored people..
In its appeal it says:
“There is no place where a large party of
colored boys or girls between 6 and 12%
years may go for an outing, nor where a
colored patient of any age, discharged from
a hospital, may go at any time.”
*3 The New York Urban Committee of the
National League on Urban Conditions
Among Negroes is about to open an employ-
ment bureau.
<1 Headley Park has been formally dedicated
to the Negroes of Nashville, Tenn.
•3 The board of county commissioners re-
cently decided that unless the city of Indian-
apolis and Harry D. Tutweiler, playground
commissioner, permit colored children to
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
169
play in the newly opened playground in the
courthouse yard, the playground will have
to go.
“We do not believe in showing any dis-
crimination against colored children,” said
Commissioner Kit ley. “The playground is
for all of the children and the city has no
right to exclude colored children.”
MUSIC AND ART.
ONE of the most significant musical events
of the year, the annual music festival
of the Litchfield County Choral Union,
was held at Norfolk, Conn., early in June.
Madame Maud Powell, the distinguished
violinist, played S. Coleridge-Taylor’s new
violin concerto, giving the first public per-
formance of this work. Of the concerto
Musical America says: “It contains inter-
esting melodic material and piquant
rhythms.”
Another contribution to the program was
the cantata “A Tale of Old Japan,” writ-
ten by Coleridge-Taylor.
*3 Miss Clarice A. Jones of Washington,
D.	C., was among the pianoforte pupils who
graduated in June from the Ithaca, N. Y.,
Conservatory of Music. Miss Jones took a
prominent part in the May recital.
*3 J. Elmer Spyglass, baritone, of Toledo,
0., sailed June 15, from Rotterdam, Holland,
to America. After his graduation from the
Toledo Conservatory of Music, Mr. Spy-
glass went abroad, where he has* spent a
number of successful years as a singer.-
<3 Miss Sinclair White of Chicago, 111., who
graduated June IS from the Chicago Musical
College, took part in the commencement pro-
gram, playing the first and second move-
ments of Sitt’s concertina in A minor. Miss
White, who is a violinist, was the winner of
the diamond medal awarded in the “teachers'
certificate class.” Accompanied by her
mother she leaves shortly for Russia, where
she is to have the advantage of five years'
study.
<3 The graduating class of the New England
Conservatory of Music, Boston, Mass., in-
cluded three colored students—Miss Beatrice
Lewis, pianist, Washington, D. C.; Miss
Mary R. Page, soprano, Langston, Okla.,
and Mr. William Speights, tenor, Charles-
ton, S. C.
Miss Page and- Mr. Speights are the first
colored students to graduate from the vocal
department of the conservatory; both have
done excellent work. Miss Page is a former
graduate of Langston University, Oklahoma,
an institute of which her father, Prof. Inman
Page, is president. The colored schools of
Chiekasha, Okla., have secured Miss Page
as instructor in vocal music.
Mr. Speights, who entered the conserva-
tory as a graduate from the Edward Waten
College in Florida, will be engaged this fall
in concert work.
<3 Miss Helen Hagan, who graduated this
year at the Yale University School of Music,
has for the third time won scholarships from
this school. She has been awarded the Sam-
uel Simons Sanford Fellowship, which pro-
vides for two years' study abroad. The
fellowship was given for the best original
composition. At the concert given in May
in Woolsey Hall. Miss Hagan played her
concerto in C minor for piano and orchestra.
She was accompanied by the New Haven
Symphony Orchestra.
Besides the prize concerto, Miss Hagan has
to her credit a group of songs, pianoforte
pieces, violin and piano sonatas and string
quartets.
<3 A lecture and recital was given in June
in Pittsburgh, Pa., at Carnegie Music Hall,
by Madame E. Azalia Hackley, the well-
known soprano.
<J Mrs. Eugenia L. Prioleau is taking a post-
graduate course at the New York Conserva-
tory of Music. Mrs. Prioleau conducts a
school of music at Sumter, S. C.
During the month of June there was an
exhibition at the Veerhoff art gallery in
Washington, D. C., of a bust of Dr. W. E.
B. Du Bois, the work of Mrs. May Howard
Jackson.
Leila Machlin. art critic, speaks of the
bust in the Washington Star. '“It has been
pronounced an excellent likeness and is un-
doubtedly well modeled. The head is well
placed on the shoulders, the expression is
vital and good,.and the play of muscle, the
turn of surface, the intimation of mobility
are well rendered. Mrs. Jackson studied
some years ago in Philadelphia under cap-
able masters. Her work shows good teaching
and, on the artist's part, real promise.”
MEN OF THE
MONTH
1,1? LATTMFR'^iJ
JOANNA P. MOORE
/^NE of the figures promineut at the
National Association’s Chicago confer-
ence tv as Miss Joanna P. Moore. Born in
1832 in Clarion County, Pennsylvania, Miss
Moore, from 1863 to the present day, has
devoted herself to the uplift of the Negro
race. She tells the story of her life of self-
sacrifice and toil and deep spiritual joy in
a little book published by the Women’s
Baptist Home Missionary Society of Chicago,
entitled “In Christ’s Stead.” One sees in
it, as one sees in her face, undiminished vigor
and purpose.
The most distinctive note in Miss Moore’s
work has been her emphasis upon the train-
ing of the parents in the home. Before the
Chautauqua movement she had a Chautauqua
among the black people, of the South.
Her Fireside Schools, as she called them,
grew out of her experience as a teacher
among the former slaves. She saw that in-
struction must not stop with the school, the
church or the Sunday school, but must be
continued about the fireside. So in each
place that she visited, through Alabama,
Louisiana, Arkansas, Mississippi, Tennessee,
she organized the parents in associations and
instructed them in the fundamental ethics of
the home. They promised to teach their
children household work, to try to spend
their money to make the home beautiful with
books, pictures and music, rather than to
use it iu outside pleasures. They were to
study the Bible with their children, and
prayerfully to strive to practice its precepts.
A little paper entitled Hope, published
first in 1885, and continuing to the present
time, keeps the various Fireside Schools in
touch with their founder. Through many
vicissitudes this noble and courageous woman
has continued her difficult task, and thou-
sands of virtuous colored homes of the
South owe their being to her influence.
Besides her Fireside Schools she founded
in New Orleans the Faith Home for the Aged
Colored. In Baton Rouge she conducted a
boarding school for young colored girls,
future “fireside mothers,” but the vicious
among the whites, jealous of the educated
Negro, practised such horrible methods of
intimidation that this school, for which she
had received over $2,000 in money, a great
sum in those early days, had to be given
up. She opened a reading room when teach-
ing in Morgan City, La., placing it between
two disreputable saloons, and brought many
colored men into her home of temperance.
Wherever she worked for the people she so
dearly loved she gave them the highest that
she knew.
In a recent letter to the editor of The
Crisis she says:
“Send in appeal and appeal against in-
justice to those in authority so intense and
so urgent, and by so great a number, that
they must needs listen to you. It seems to
me that, comparatively speaking, only a very
few care for those who suffer. They have
MEN OF THE MONTH
171
not the courage to stand for the right and
suffer. I have been in the dark places and
I know the neglected and suffering ones.
The half has never been told, but it is far,
far better than in the days of slavery. There
is a bright side; we must keep it in view
or we will lose heart. The light has dawned,
thank God!”
AN INVESTIGATOR IN BIOLOGY.
PROFESSOR ERNEST E. JUST, as-
sociate professor of biology in the
College of Arts and Sciences of Howard
University, is attracting wide attention as
an investigator. He has just published in
the March number of the Biological Bulle-
tin, the organ of the Marine Biological
Laboratory of Wood's Hole, Mass., a paper
on "The Relation of the First Cleavage
Plane of the Entrance Point of the Sperm.”
This article is illustrated by a number of
drawings made by the author from living
specimens and is the first of a series of
studies of biological topics upon which Pro-
fessor Just is engaged. Authorities in this
field believe that his investigations have set-
tled the long standing dispute on the issue
involved.
Professor Just was born in Charleston,
S.	C., in 1SS3. He received his early
education in private schools and at
the Orangeburg State School. He was
STEPHEN MORRELL NEWMAN
rT"rHE presidency of Howard University
A has been filled by Dr. Stephen Morrell
Newman. Dr. Newman was born in West
Falmouth, Me., in 1S45. He graduated from
Bowdoin College in 1S67 and from Andover
Theological Seminary in 1S71. Seventeen
years later Bowdoin College conferred upon
him the honorary degree of doctor of
divinity. He was pastor of the Congrega-
tional Church of Taunton, Mass., of the
First Church at Ripon, Wis., and of the
First Congregational Church at Washington,
D.	C. In 1906 he was elected to the presi-
dency of Eastern College at Fort Royal, Va.
He resigned this position in 1907 to become
president of Kee Mar College for Women,
Hagerstown, Md.
From 1SS0 to 1SS2 he was professor of
mathematics and biology at Ripon College,
Wisconsin, and is a member of many
scientific societies.
ERNEST E. JUST
graduated from Dartmouth College in 1907
and at once entered the service of Howard
University as instructor, becoming later as-
sistant and then associate professor. He is
on the list of authorized investigators of the
Wood’s Hole Laboratory, where he spends
his vacations in research work.
172
THE CRISIS
THEODORE CABLE
THEODORE CABLE graduated from
Shortridge High School, Indianapo
1908,,	and from Phillips-Exeter Acadei
1909.
He entered Harvard in 1909 and made
freshman team in throwing the hammer a
220-yard dash. He won the Yale freshn
meet with a throw of 117 feet. During
sophomore year he broke Harvard's rec(
with a throw of 150 feet at the spring gan
and won against Yale with 148 feet,
was then chosen to go abroad, and that su
mer won third place against Oxford a
Cambridge.
In his junior year he won the 56-pou
championship for height in Madison Sqm
Garden, New York. At the Dartmoi
meet he made a throw of 154 feet 11 2
inches, which not only set a dual-meet recc
but established a new Harvard record. T1
May in the Yale meet he won in the hammer
throw, 154 feet 11% inches, and also the
broad jump of 22 feet 10% inches, and on
June 1 he won first place in the inter-
collegiates at Philadelphia, with a throw of
162 feet 4 inches.
He is 21 years old and weighs ISO pounds.
Cable counts as his staunch guide and
friend Coach Quinn, whose sympathy and
patience, combined with Cable’s own tenacity
and endurance, have brought such extra-
ordinary success.
Theodore Cable’s mother, Mrs. Mary E.
Cable, is principal of one of Indianapolis’s
most attractive grammar schools. She is a
woman of splendid energy, good sense and
keen knowledge of the needs of children.
She has given her son every advantage at
college.
MEN OF THE MONTH
173
THE LATE EDWIN CLARENCE HOWARD
P DWIN CLARENCE HOWARD, M. D.,
^ who died at his home in Philadelphia.
May 10, 1912, had a unique and useful
career. He was a native of Boston, as were
his paternal forbears for several genera-
tions. On his mother’s side lie was a member
of the well-known Turpin family of New
York. He was born in 1846 and his school
life was spent in his native city. In 1861
he went to Liberia and there studied under
Alexander Crummell and Edward W. Blyden.
He returned to the United States in 1866
and entered the medical department of Har-
vard University, from which he graduated in
1S69. Upon receiving his degree he was made
surgeon in the Massachusetts militia, but he
soon left for Charleston, S. C., where he
practised at his profession.for three months.
At the close of the summer of 1S69 he went
to Philadelphia, where he remained, a prac-
tising physician, until his last sickness and
death.
Dr. Howard ranked high in his profes-
sion, and paved the way for the many suc-
cessful physicians of his race in Philadel-
phia to-day. In 1S70, during a terrible
smallpox epidemic, he never lost a case. In
1872 the great Dr. Gross, confirming Dr.
Howard’s diagnosis of an extremely difficult
and complicated case, sent the colored phy-
sician a commendatory letter and a copy of
his works. He was a member of his county’s
medical society, and represented it at the
physiciAns’ national convention in 1S98.
Dr. Howard was one of Philadelphia’s
best citizens. He was on the school board,
a committeeman of the city’s peace jubilee
in 1S9S, a founder of Mercy Hospital, an
organizer of the Frederick Douglass Hos-
pital, and ex-president and founder of the
Citizens’ Club. He served at his profession
faithfully and well for forty-three years.
THE LOVER OF HIS COUNTRY
The following lines were written by James Bussell Lowell in 1S74 when justifying
to a friend his years of bitter attack upon the institution of slavery:
"I loved my country so as only they
Who love a mother fit to die for may;
I loved her old renown, her stainless fame—
What better proof than that I loathed her shame?”
‘JIM CROW7
MATTERS.
“The Negroes down in
this part of the land of
the free,” writes the St.
Luke Herald of Richmond, Va., “if they do
any traveling in these hot days must feel
deep resentment at the way in which they
are treated by nearly every road in the
South. It is a burning shame to compel
Negroes to pay the same fare as that paid
by white passengers, and then give them
cattle-car accommodations.
“In these warm and perspiring days
^Negroes are cooped up in the smallest possi-
ble space in one end of the baggage car.
But they are not even allowed to occupy
this limited space’, for the news butcher •
comes along and occupies two seats in the
‘ Jim Crow’ corner and the conductor gen-
erally occupies two seats with his belongings
usually just across from the newsboy.
“The smoking compartment on the C. and
O.	trains is a stifling, narrow affair, into
which four persons may squeeze and stifle
should they desire to smoke. Usually one
toilet of the narrowest dimensions and prim-
itive appointments serves both male and fe-
male travelers. Dirty tin cups are sometimes
furnished for drinking purposes, while
the car just in the rear, or the car beyond
the white smoking car, generally has a
lavatory with soap and towel and a glass for
drinking purposes. The aisles in the white
coaches are generally carpeted, while the
aisles in the ‘Jim Crow* car are as inno-
cent of carpet as the floor is of cleanliness.
“When the few seats in the Negro com-
partment are filled, notwithstanding the law
provides that the Negro passengers may
then be seated in the car for the whites, the
Negroes regardless of numbers and regard-
less of heat and all inconveniences crowd the
aisles and stand on the platform until leaving
passengers make room for them.
“The picture is a most unpleasant one;
and these conditions will continue and get
worse with the increase of Negro travel, until
the Negro begins a systematic organized pro-
test to the railroad authorities, to the State
corporation hoards and to the Interstate
Commerce Commission at Washington.”
While we read much in our own papers
of the while American’s distaste for the
Negro, it may not he amiss for us to learn
the 'attitude of the foreigner toward the
white American. In this connection the
London Standard publishes the following:
“In the course of visiting many of our
great coast resorts to inquire into the ques-
tion why more American visitors are not
attracted during the winter, spring and
autumn seasons, it was found that in several
prominent towns a surprising prejudice
exists with respect to American visitors.
“One found Frenchmen and French
women, Germans, Austrians and Russians
very welcome visitors, but the feeling against
the American was quite general.
“One hotelkeeper said—and his words are
given exactly as uttered:
“ ‘I do not want these Yankees in my place.
They may be wealthy, but they are excess-
ively mean and want their money’s worth
every time. After the Americans we have
had, I don’t think they are any sort of
advertisement. In fact, I believe a hotel
which is notedly frequented by Americans
loses or is avoided by the best class of Eng-
lish and other visitors.
“ ‘American visitors of wealth have the
most barbarous manners. The men throw
their shaving papers on the bedroom floors,
spit indiscriminately about the stab's and
vestibules, drown conversations in the draw-
ing and reception rooms, swagger about and
dress in such a fashion that one really would
be ill paid by raising the tariffs 100 per cent,
to them. Then again they are difficult be-
cause other guests cannot help commenting
and laughing outright.
“ ‘When Americans arrive here we like to
OPINION
175
know something about them before we state
that we have accommodations, and under such
circumstances can you blame us?’
“At another resort the same question arose.
There the leading authority in town said:
“ ‘We welcome French and Germans but not
Americans. They are always talking money,
thinking money, dreaming money, but only
under compulsion are they spending it.
They invade the place and act as if they
had bought it. Their method of addressing
servants reminds one that they insult Negroes
whenever they get a chance on principle. I
know of no hotelkeeper w'ho could refuse an
American, but I know of few who are de-
lighted to see them/ 99
worried to death all the time just prior to
elections by committees and factions from
the black districts of the State wanting the
appointment of certain election commission-
ers, the excuse being that the Democratic
ticket is imperilled because of the excessive
number of Negroes in those districts. As a
matter of fact, the real purpose is to deny
the Negro the legal right which he now has
to vote.
“Again, this practice has been carried on
until it has not stopped with the Negro, but
has been extended by the dominant factions
to the counting out of white men’s votes.
“Let us be sincere and honest in what we
are doing; be open and fair, and state openly
what we intend to do.”
THE GOVERNOR
OP ARKANSAS.
The governor of one of
the States of the Union
pledged to uphold the
Constitution of the United States has given
out the following statement:
“I am in favor of the passage of the
grandfather clause amendment to the State
constitution. From every viewpoint it is
better to eliminate the Negro from politics.
In the South racial conditions will not permit
of his engaging in politics. Several States
in the South have the grandfather clause. It
is better for the Negro, because when he
does not engage in politics he will cease to
antagonize the white man, can look better
after his own affairs and in every other way
obtain a better recognition.
“Then, so long as we do not permit the
Negro to vote anyway, why not do it legally
instead of by the process of elimination? It
is true that there are a few Negroes who
ought to be permitted to vote, but as a race
it would unquestionably be bad policy to
permit their voting by the wholesale.
“Statistics show there are in the neighbor-
hood of 100,000 Negroes of voting age in
Arkansas. If one of them is entitled to a
vote all are. This number would be sufficient
to carry any election in the State. In Jef-
ferson County alone there are about 6,000
Negroes of voting age and 3,000 white
voters. The same ratio exists in many other
counties of the Stale.
“By all means let us pass this amendment
to the constitution, and then let us have
absolutely fair elections between white men.
Let every white man’s vote be counted just
as he votes it. As the matter now stands,
the State board of election commissioners is
AMERICANS
AND CUBANS.
The Montreal Witness
gives the following
searching criticism of
our attempts at intervention in Cuba:
“The hatred between man and man that
has sprung up recently in Cuba, and is now
manifesting itself in war, is pitiablf and
the greatest disaster that could have befallen
the island. Had this hatred been caused by
some greed, such as a boundary dispute or
the uneven distribution of wealth, some com-
promise would have finally laid it to rest.
A hatred based on the ineradicable color dis-
tinction between the races has a base as deep
in the savage nature of the black as well as
the white as is their mutual antipathy to
a crawling snake. For many years it has
lain dormant, and the Cuban with his Indian
blood, the Negro and the Spaniard have
dwelt together with no social quarrel, treat-
ing each other, if not with mutual respect, at
least with mutual toleration. The seed of
the tree that grew the apple of discord was
a discrimination in the distribution of
patronage by the government of the republic.
The Negroes were given very little, and so
started to form themselves together as a
political force. After some years of steady
growth the fruit of the tree took concrete
form in a bill passed by government making
it an offense to form a political party on
racial lines. This was a measure designed
to prevent the natural effect of a cause, and
not as it should have been, one designed to
uproot the cause. The whites have taken
the stand that to them, and they will be, at
least for another couple of generations the
governing race, belong the spoils and so
176
THE CRISIS
have raised a dispute that will long smoulder.
“The United States is, one would think,
the last government on earth capable of in-
terfering for good in such a dispute. Only
last year President Taft had the daring to
appoint a very capable Negro lawyer, of
Boston, as first assistant to his Attorney-
General. This was the highest appointment
ever given to a colored man, giving him
almost Cabinet rank. The appointment was
so resented by the white people that the
association of the bar met and disbarred
him. Though the Negro population number
approximately ten millions in the United
States, and though they have proved them-
selves splendid soldiers, they are not even
allowed government employment as privates
(the lowest class of all in public employ-
ment) in proportion to their numbers. In-
tervention by the United States in Cuba can
only be on behalf of the whites, and can
only aggravate and make permanent the
racial division. As 'the population of the
island is divided almost equally between
white and colored, every one will be touched
by it. Some, indeed, very intimately, for
the races have lived so long together and
intermarried so freely that it is hard to see
where the line between white and black can
be drawn. It can never now take the exam-
ple of the Southern States and account every
one with a trace of colored blood black, as
this would place President Gomez himself
and some of his cabinet on the black side.
“The United States might far better seek
to have the difference arbitrated at the Hague
than to interfere by landing troops, and so
nullifying the responsibility not only of the
present but of any succeeding Cuban
government.”
AS RUSSIA
SEES US.
The Literary Digest has
an account of a meeting
in Russia to protest
against the action of the United States in
revoking the treaty of 1832, because Russia
discriminated against American Jews. The
Digest shows that the speakers were well
informed. One of them, a man named
Lavnov, said:
“The complaint of the United States that
the Jews are oppressed in Russia is a piece
of monumental hypocrisy. To understand
the hypocrisy of the United States, remem-
ber the condition of the Negroes there. The
Negroes in the United States are full citizens,
but no Negro can obtain the right, no matter
how much money he may be willing to pay,
to ride in a first-class railway coach. In the
State of Virginia a few years ago a Russian
was arrested and "put in jail for a month
because, as a mark of protest, he sat in a
Jim Crow car and talked in a comradely
way with the Negroes. As for lynching. I
need only mention the news published in
to-day’s St. Petersburg papers telling of a
case of three who were shot by the mob at
the very time they were on trial in court.”
dhe south's
YWAKENING.
Current Literature re-
marks that there is an
almost lyric rapture in
he accents of Southerners these days when
hey write of the growth of the South, and
quotes some of the rhapsodies. One of them
iomes from the pen of Philip R. Kellar in
Jncle Remus* Home Magazine:
“No longer,” he proclaims, “may we speak
South,” he assures us, “comprises approxi-
mately one-third of our entire population.
Foreign exports from Southern ports amount
to 36.4 per cent, of the total from the coun-
try, or $747,448,478 worth; $944,000,000
worth of exports, or nearly 47 per cent, of
the total for all the United States, originate
either directly or indirectly in the South.
“To-day the- South annually produces
$2,600,000,000 worth of grain, live* stock,
vegetables, fruit, etc., on her farms; $2,690,-
000,000 worth of manufactured goods in her
factories; $440,000,000 worth of forest pro-
ducts, and $280,000,000 worth of minerals;
a total of $6,010,000,000 added each year to
the wealth of the nation.
“Forty-six years ago few men or women
in the South were producing enough to live
even half comfortably. To-day, for every
man, woman and child, white and black, there
is a production of $217.75 annually, and the
once bankrupt South has $1,160,000,000 of
deposits in her banks, $2,120,000,000 invested
in her manufactures and $21,500,000,000
worth of property.”
The historjT of the human race, the same
writer goes on to say, has no record of such
a quick and complete recovery from such a
state of desolation. Six billion dollars, he
muses, is twice as much as all the slaves in
the South were valued at when the Civil
War began.
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
FO.R THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE
T'HE National Association for the Ad-
vancement of Colored People was one
ot the affiliated associations meeting with
the National Conference of Charities and
Correction at their thirty-ninth annual con-
ference in Cleveland in June. A meeting was
held on the afternoon of June 17, which was
well attended. President Charles T. Thwing
of Western Reserve University presided. The
speakers were Dr. Du Bois, Mrs. Florence
Kelley, Hon. Julian W. Mack, Mr. Charles
W. Chesnutt and Miss Mary White
Ovington.
The citizens’ committee of Philadelphia,
of which mention was made in the last num-
ber of The Crisis, is considering becoming
a branch of the National Association for
the Advancement of Colored People. On
June 19 Prof. J. E. Spingarn addressed the
committee. In the afternoon of the same day
he addressed the graduating class of the
Frederick Douglass Memorial Hospital and
Training School.
The association is to be congratulated upon
the addition to its legal committee of Mr.
Charles A. Boston, of the firm of Horn-
blower, Miller & Potter, of New York. Mr.
Boston is a Baltimorean and a graduate of
Johns Hopkins University. His conspicuous
ability as a lawyer and his earnestness and
success in advancing the cause of justice are
too well known to need more than a mention.
The association sent a telegram to the
governor of Georgia protesting against the
lynching of Anne Bostwick. A representa-
tive was also sent to the scene of the crime,
but was unable to secure any facts in addi-
tion to those given under “The Burden” in
another part of this issue.
The association is printing a new pam-
phlet, “The Objects of the National Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Colored
People,” by Oswald Garrison Yillard. This
was published in the June number of The
Crisis and formed part of Mr. Villard’s
address at the Chicago conference. The fol-
lowing pamphlets are being reprinted:
“Leaving It to the South,” by Charles
Edward Russell; “Social Control,” by Jane
Addams; “Disfranchisement of the Negro,”
by Rev. John Haynes Holmes.
Legal counsel for the association, after
investigation, reported on the following
segregation cases:
In Greenville, S. C., Goldsmith Brothers,
mentioned under the “Ghetto” in the July
number of The Crisis, had been prevented
from purchasing a $65,000 piece of property
by the passage of the “customary form of
segregation ordinance.” Since the property
could not be conveyed, owing to the passage
of this ordinance, they also lost the $150 they
paid down to bind the bargain. This they
cannot recover because they “broke their
contract.”
In Mooresville, N. C., Mr. Coble, also
mentioned in the July number of The Crisis,
plans to test the segregation ordinance by
commencing to build.
In Winston-Salem, N. C., the sentiment
is so bitter that in case the present ordinance
is held invalid the white community has de-
clared its intention to pass one even more
stringent.
Progress in the Baltimore case is indicated
by the following letter from our attorney:
June 27, 1912.
National Association for the Advancement of
Colored People, 26 Yesey Street, New York
City.
Gentlemen:
Acting under your instructions, and at the
request of Mr. Hawkins, the local attorney, I
had an interview, together with Mr. Hawkins,
on June 20, 1912, with Judge Elliott of the
Criminal Court in Baltimore, and a represen-
tative of the district-attorney's office. Since
178
THE
CRISIS
we arranged, some two months ago, for the
prosecution of this case, Mr. Hawkins has been
doing his utmost to have it brought on for
argument, but owing to various reasons the
district-attorney's office has procured repeated
adjournments. The result of the conference
above mentioned was that the case should be
set down for argument without fail on August
26 next, the reason for the delay being that
Judge Elliott, before whom the case will come
up for hearing, goes away on his vacation this
week and will not be back until August 21.
Very truly yours,
C. Ames Brooks.
In Richmond the association’s counsel re-
ported as follows:
A test case is now before the courts, having
been brought by a Mr. W. L. Waring, a prop-
erty owner, on behalf of certain colored tenants
of his who have been prosecuted under the
terms of the segregation act. The case we
think is a very good one, as the question both
of the ownership and tenancy of property is
involved, four of the people whom Mr. Waring
represents being tenants, the fifth having pur-
chased a piece of land from Mr. Waring. The
case is being handled by Mr. William L. Royall,
of Richmond, and will come up for final dispo-
sition early in the fall.
During June 102 new members were
added to the association.
The Lewis matter, reported from time to
time in The Crisis, will come up for deci-
sion at the annual meeting of the American
Bar Association at Milwaukee this month. In
June the National Association, over the sig-
nature of Mr. Villard, sent circular letters
of protest to many prominent members of
the American Bar Association. The follow-
ing is a copy of the letter sent to members of
the committee on increase of membership:
June 3, 1912.
My Dear Sir:
Noting that you are on the committee on
increase of membership of the American Bar
Association, I am taking the liberty of laying
before you the views of the National Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Colored People in
regard to the cases of the three colored lawyers,
Messrs. William II. Lewis, William R. Morris
and Butler R. Wilson, who are members of the
American Bar Association. We have a direct
personal interest in this controversy because one
of these gentlemen, Mr. Butler R. Wilson, is
secretary of the Boston branch of our organiza-
tion which is formed to fight against any such
exhibition of un-American and race prejudice
as is endorsed by the action of the officers and
executive committee of the American Bar Asso-
ciation. The board of directors of our organi-
zation wishes to express to you its profound
regret at the action of the executive committee
and believes this action to be illegal and con-
trary to the principles of justice for which your
association must stand. Wc cannot think that
it reflects the opinion of the body of high-
minded intelligent men who make up your
membership.
There is a growing criticism to-day of the
attitude of the courts in the United States
toward colored men. We ourselves have found
numerous cases of discrimination solely because
of color. If an organization pledged “to ad-
vance the science of jurisprudence, to promote
the administration of justice,M shows its race
prejudice by excluding a man regularly elected
into its membership when it finds that he is
colored, this criticism will be justified; and it
will be justified as applied to men high in the
legal profession, whom we have had a right
to believe stood for the impartial administration
of the law to black and white alike. We wish
to express to you our profound conviction that
the effort to dismiss from your membership,
because of their color, men of merit and high
attainment is a denial of justice and a blow at
democracy.
.Very respectfully,
Oswald Garrison Villard,
Chairman of the Board of Directors.
In acknowledgment of this letter Mr. Louis
Ncwberger, of the firm of Newberger, Rich-
ards, Simon & Davis, Indianapolis, writes in
part as follows:
This matter was first brought to my attention
by Attorney-General Wickersham, whose views
I fully endorsed, aud on the suggestion of Mr.
Wickersham protested to the secretary of the
American Bar Association against the action
so taken.
The object of the American Bar Association,
as stated in its constitution, is “to advance the
science of jurisprudence, promote the adminis-
tration of justice and uniformity of legislation
throughout the Union, uphold the honor of the
profession of the law and encourage cordial
intercourse among the members of the American
bar,” and “any person shall be eligible to mem-
bership in the association who shall be and
shall, for five years next preceding, have been
a member in good standing of the bar of any
State.f f
It will thus be seen that there is no lawful
basis for the action of the executive committee,
while such action measured by just humani-
tarian considerations is abhorrent. I am in full
accord with the views expressed by you and
shall attend the forthcoming meeting of the
association at Milwaukee and do what I can
to right the manifest wrong attempted to be
done to Messrs. Lewis, Morris and Wilson in
the action heretofore taken by the executive
committee.
Mr. John P. Nields of Wilmington, Del.,
says:
I have already written to Mr. Lewis in regard
to his unfair treatment by the committee of
the American Bar Association. I share the
regret of your committee and can be counted
on to express my indignation.
THE N. A.
A. C. P.
179
Mr. Ansley Wilcox, of Wilcox, Bull & Van
Allen, Buffalo, expresses his disapproval as
follows:
I am wholly out of sympathy with the action
of the officers of the association in connection
with colored members, and feel that a great
mistake has been made.
-Mr. George B. Young of Newport, Vt.,
thus states his position in relation to the
colored members:
I have personally known Mr. Morris for a
number of years and always thought well of
him. I have felt and have expressed to the
executive committee the feeling that the asso-
ciation is making a grave mistake in attempting
to expel these members from the association.
Mr. Yorke-Allen, of Allen & Sabine, New
York, expresses himself as follows:
I agree with everything you so well say in
your letter. At the time of the occurrence
I wrote to the secretary expressing the view
that the action of the executive committee of
the American Bar Association was not only
beyond its powers, but also a gross outrage and
an absurd example to set to a race whose
superiors they affected to be.
it is, however, unthinkable that the asso-
ciation as a whole will stultify itself and its
professed objects by endorsing the said action
of its committee. Such a course would indeed
be a wicked denial of justice and a blow at
democracy.
In reply to a second circular letter also
sent out over Mr. Villard’s signature, Mr.
Adrian H. Joline, of Joline, Larkin & Rath-
bone, New York, writes:
T wish to say that I have already signified
in the only way permitted so far my opposition
to the proposed action of the American Bar
Association with regard to its colored members
and am in accord with Mr. Wickersham in his
views.
Probably an unlooked-for effect of the*
action of the committee upon prospective
members in the American Bar Association is
indicated by the following letter:
WHERRY & MORGAN
Attorneys-at-Law
43 Cedar Street
New' York
May 23, 1912.
Mr. Charles J. O’Connor, Chairman Committee
Increase in Membership, American Bar Asso-
ciation, 1522 Tribune Building, Chicago, 111.
Dear Sir:
I have your letter of May 1, 1912, urging me
to join the American Bar Association. Ordi-
narily one would feel gratified to receive an
invitation to join an association distinguished
by the names of so many prominent members
of the profession. In the present case this is
not so. As counsel for the National Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Colored People, a
large part of my professional labor is devoted
to enforcing the rights of colored citizens of
the L'nited States, and obtaining redress for
wrongs due to race prejudice. As the American
Bar Association presents a signal example of
this race prejudice and of discrimination based
on this prejudice, it is impossible for me to
consider your request.
Yours very truly,
William N. Wherry, Jr.
In contrast to these opinions we quote
from Bench and Bur, the monthly magazine
for lawyers, Vol. 2S, No. 3:
Membership in the American Bar Association
confers certain privileges of a character which
imply social intercourse upon a basis of equality.
To a very large proportion of the membership
of the association, however thoroughly each one
might respect the attainments, ability and char-
acter of a colored man, this sort of association
would be violently distasteful. Certainly in this
sense, and to this extent, the introduction of
a colored man to membership is unfortunate,
and it seems to us to be a mistake so serious
as that it should be corrected, if this may now
be done.
A number of well-known clubs in New York
City and elsewhere countenance racial discrimi-
nations. We have been informed, for example,
that it is the settled policy of the Union League
Club of New York City, of which we understand
the present Attorney-General of the United
States to have been once a member, to exclude
Hebrews from membership. Personally, we
know many Hebrews who are the most delight-
ful of intimate and personal associates, and
yet upon entering such a club, or continuing
one [8 membership therein, one would not criti-
cise’ or denounce its settled poliey or seek to
oppose or override it by circularizing its mem-
bers or otherwise. And perhaps it may be
observed, parenthetically, that those excluded on
the ground of race are, if otherwise eligible, the
last to make audible protest against the ban.
Delicacy and gentility forbid. We are told also
that the association of the bar of New York
City, of which the Attorney-General is likewise
•a member, has never admitted a woman to mem-
bership, though there are said to be a number
of capable women lawyers in New York City.
So far as we know neither of these regulations
has caused great outcry, nor has either given
rise to any postcard campaign by members,
public officials or others, though perhaps the
time is approaching when there will be no longer
racial discrimination in clubs, nor will any
lawyer be excluded from a bar association on
the ground of race or sex. But such a time
appears not yet to have arrived, and the con-
sensus of the members, without internal officious-
ness or exhortation, is assuredly entitled to
determine when a change of this far-reachin^
character shall be brought about.
EDITORIAL
iiHiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
POLITICS.
HE colored voter now
stands face to face with
the great question of the
proper use of his elec-
toral franchise. Under
normal conditions 2,000,-
000 of the 20,000,000 votes which might
be cast at a presidential election would
belong to the race, and some day, despite
every effort of fraud and race prejudice,
those votes are going to be cast.
To-day, however, of the 15,000,000 or
more votes which will actually be cast
for President, some 500,000 will be black
men’s votes.
What shall we do with these 500,000
ballots ?
First of all we must teach ourselves
to regard them seriously. The Negro-
American is not disfranchised; on the
contrary, he is a half million votes this
side of disfranchisement and that is a
long, long way. There have been ’but
two or three presidential elections since
the war which have not been settled
by a margin of less than a half million
votes, and in every single election since
the proslavery compromise of 1850
such a number of votes distributed at
strategic points would easily have
decided the presidency.
The votes of black Americans are to-
day at strategic points. We may, of
course, leave the South out of account:
on account of illegal enactments and
brazen fraud, democratic government
exists in the South only in inchoate and
incomplete form. The presidential elec-
tion is 'probably going to be decided by
the Middle West and the States of New
York and New Jersey. New York and
Ohio have each between 40,000 and
50,000	colored votes; New Jersey, Illi-
nois and Indiana have each 30,000 or
more. Is there any political prophet
who would risk his reputation on the
possibility of any one of these States
being carried by more than 20,000
majority? There may be majorities of
50,000	or 100,000 in one or two of the
States, but the chances are that the
colored voters hold the balance of power
in every one of their States and thus
have the power to say whether William
Howard Taft or Woodrow Wilson shall
be the next President.
If colored America had long political
experience and wide knowledge of men
and measures, it would organize the
black voters of each State into a solid
phalanx. It would say to this phalanx:
white and colored voters in this land
are selling their votes too cheaply. By
the use of a “slush fund” of $3,000,000
Theodore Roosevelt was able almost to
split the Republican party. You could
easily sell your votes next November
for one or two millions of dollars, but
that is too cheap. You could easily sell
your votes for an Assistant Attorney-
General, a Register of the Treasury, a
Recorder of Deeds and a few other black
wooden men whose duty it is to look
pleasant, say nothing and have no
opinions that a white man is bound to
respect. This also is too cheap—it is
dirt cheap.
What price should you a^k for 500,-
000 votes, black America? You should
ask this:
1. The abolition of the interstate
“Jim Crow” car.
EDITORIAL
181
2.	The enforcement of the Thir-
teenth Amendment by the suppression
of peonage.
J The enforcement of the Four-
teenth Amendment by cutting down the
representation in Congress of the rotten
boroughs of the South.
4. National aid to elementary public
schools without class or racial discrimi-
nation.
Is this price too much to pay for a
presidency? It is not if you dare
ask it.
Who then would pay it? Would
William Howard Taft pay it? There
has not been in the presidential chair
for fifty years a man so utterly lacking
in initiative and ideal as Mr. Taft. His
.abject surrender to Southern prejudice
and reaction has been simply pitiable:
He began his career by defending dis-
franchisement; he followed this by
promising to appoint no black man to
office if any white man protested; and
in spite of the fact that over 200 Negroes
have been publicly murdered without
trial during his administration, the ut-
most that 10.000,000 black men have
elicited from his lips is a hesitating
statement that he is sorry—and help-
less. Any colored man who votes for
Mr. Taft will do so on the assumption
that zero is better than minus one.
As to Mr. Wilson, there are, one must
confess, disquieting facts: he was born
in Virginia and he was long president
of a college which did not admit Negro
students and yet was not honest enough
to say so, resorting rather to subterfuge
and evasion. A man, however, is not
wholly responsible for his birthplace or
his college. On the whole, we do not
believe that Woodrow Wilson admires
Negroes. Left to himself, we suspect he
would be like Mr. Johnson, the new dean
of Yale. Mr. Johnson is a Southerner,
and recently told a colored applicant
that Yale did not want “Chinese, Jews
or Negroes. ” The ideal of such folk
would be a world inhabited by flaxen-
haired wax dolls with or without brains.
Notwithstanding such possible prefer-
ences, Woodrow Wilson is a cultivated
scholar and he has brains. We know
that there are several hundred millions
of “Chinese, Jews and Negroes” who
have to be reckoned with, and that the
date at which the “blond beast” will
inherit this earth has been, to put it
mildly, indefinitely postponed. We
have, therefore, a conviction that Mr.
Wilson will treat black men and their
interests with farsighted fairness. He
will not.be our friend, but he will not
belong to the gang of which Tillman,
Vardanian, Hoke Smith and Blease are
the brilliant expositors. He will not
advance the cause of oligarchy in the
South, he will not seek further means
of “Jim Crowr” insult, he will not dis-
miss black men wholesale from office,
and he will remember that the Negro in
the United States has a right to be heard
and considered; and if he becomes
President by the grace of the black
man *s vote, his Democratic successors
may be more willing to pay the black
man’s price of decent travel, free labor,
votes and education.
Outside of these two men, what else?
We thank God that Theodore Roosevelt
has been eliminated. How* many black
men, with the memory of Brownsville,
could support such a man passes our
comprehension. Of Eugene V. Debs, the
Socialist candidate, we can only say
this frankly: if it lay in our power to
make him President of the United States
we would do so, for of the four men
mentioned he alone, by word and deed,
stands squarely on a platform of human
rights regardless of race or class.
8
OHIO.
HIS fall the colored voters
of Ohio have, a w’ouder-
ful opportunity; the
40,000	or 50,000 votes
which they cast will
undoubtedly decide
whether women shall vote in that State
and whether the last of the infamous
black laws shall be sw’ept from the
statute book.
182
THE
CRISIS
The enfranchisement of women means
the doubling of the black vote at the
point where that vote is needed. If
woman suffrage wins in Ohio, it will
sweep the Middle West and East in less
than a generation. As Negroes have a
larger proportion of women than the
whites our relative voting importance in
the North will be increased.
Moreover, we need above all classes
the women’s influence in politics—the
influence of the mother, the wife? the
teacher and the washerwoman. In the
African fatherland the women stood
high in counsel. We need them here
again. It would be very bad, indeed, if
the colored vote should be adverse to
enfranchising women, even though it
were not the deciding factor, for the day
has gone by forever when colored men
could get a respectful hearing for their
protest against their own disfranchise-
ment if, when offered the opportunity
for voting for enfranchising their moth-
ers, wives and sisters, they should fail
to do so. For still another reason it
will be unfortunate if the Ohio Negroes
vote against votes for women; the vote
will be analyzed with keen and eager
intelligence, and the results studied for
future .use. The colored voters will
turn many possible friends into critics,
to put it mildly, if they inflict upon
women that disfranchisement which all
thinking people deplore when applied
to the Negroes themselves. The general
proposition that women ought to have
the right to vote surely needs no argu-
ment among disfranchised colored folk:
Women are workers; workers should
vote.
Women are taxpayers; taxpayers
should vote.
Women have brains; voting needs
brains.
Women organize, direct and largely
support the family; families should vote.
Women are mothers of men; if men
vote, why not women?
If politics are too nasty and rough for
women voters, is it not time we asked
the vote of women to cleanse them ?
Is there a single argument for the
right of men to vote, or for the right of
black men to vote, that does not apply
to the votes for women, and particularly
for black women?
m
ANARCHISM.
HE CRISIS has continu-
ally insisted that peon-
age, false arrest and in-
justice in the Southern
courts were responsible
for the mass of so-called
Negro crime. The testimony to this
comes continually from white Southern-
ers themselves. In nearly every South-
ern State this has been asserted from
time to time in official reports, but per-
haps the latest and strongest of these
confessions comes from Alabama. The
Federal grand jury of Jefferson County
says that justices and constables are
deliberately enriching themselves by a
system of extortion and intimidation:
1 1 For victims, whether male or female,
it singles out, in every instance, those
too poor or ignorant, too humble or
frightened to protect themselves. A
very large majority are Negroes. Were
they not Negroes, but members of a
more resentful race, anarchism would
be prevalent
WERE THEY NOT NEGROES!
Conducted by JESSIE FAUSET
Seeking the Best. By Otis M. Shackelford
Burton Publishing Co., 1911.
Perhaps we can best describe this volume
by quoting a line from its dedicatory note.
“An autobiography, entertaining, instructive
and inspiring. Ten chapters of true stories
and interesting episodes in the life of the
author." Thus much is true and more, for
the book, while not great literature, has a
style so attractively simple and naive that
one insensibly turns many a page before he
puts it down.
The author’s motive for writing is cer-
tainly very praiseworthy, and one for col-
ored men and women to consider. “We must
have,” he says, “some one to perpetuate our
memory in letters, or our past will indeed
be a thing of the past. It is unfair and
unreasonable for us to expect men of the
other ^ace to do this for us. We must tell
our own tales of woe and sing our own songs
of gladness.”
B
A Narrative of the Negro. By Mrs. Leila
Amos Pendleton. Published by the author,
Washington, D. C., 1912.
Now, at last, it would seem, we have an
historian of no mean ability who has arisen
in answer to our need. Too much credit
cannot be given Mrs. Pendleton for the
interest and effort manifested in the con-
ception and execution of her book.
The modest title and the slenderness of the
volume hardly lead the reader to suspect the
comprehensiveness of treatment which actu-
ally awaits him. For this book treats not
only of the Negro in the United States, but
considers his condition here only as an im-
portant phase of his general history. This
last is surveyed from his earliest days in
Africa. Viewed in this light one gains a
new idea of the immense historical value of
the Negro and of the persistence with which
he plays his part in the drama of nations.
•Despised, hated, debased, exploited in every
imaginable way by every nation on every
continent, the Negro still is. And so out of
the blackness of despair springs eternal
hope.
The colored American would do well to
put this book in the hands of his children, to
let them know that they, too, have great
men and splendid women. In these pages
is told the story of Toussaint L’Ouverture,
of Denmark Vesey, Nat Turner, Sojourner
Truth, Harriet Tubman. We know too
little of the cause for the fame of these
characters—if, indeed, we know of them at
all. Whereas, these are names to conjure
with—to inspire in all people of color high
purpose, unflinching courage, great persist-
ence. When one thinks of the fearful odds
in slavery times against the black man who
dared to try to lift his head, and then remem-
bers that these people dared—there is noth-
ing finer in all history. And these people are
ours, not the borrowed types of a hostile
race whose members hold us persistently
aloof.
The style is simple, concise and very read-
able—the general presentation on the whole
is very commendable.
S
Poems. By H. Cordelia Ray. The Grafton
Press, New York.
One is impressed by the versatility of this
author. Her little book contains almost
every sort of poetic form and deals with
almost every imaginable subject. The qual-
ity of the verse is uneven, perhaps, but much
of it is very, very good. Often her choice
of terms for her word pictures is quite
happy. Take the following:
“Wan statues stare in gardens fair,
Proud in their cold beseeching.”
The ballads are very interesting. They
have a distinct flavor of old far-off* times and
reveal much of the poetic atmosphere in
which this author undoubtedly moves.
flDav\> IDunlop flOaclean
On Tuesday, July 9, Mary Dunlop Maclean, since its inception the
managing editor of Tiie Crisis, was in her office helping with the
Vacation Number that should go to the printer in its entirety by the
end of the week. She made many last notes, for the senior editor was
away on his vacation; then closed her desk, and drove to the hospital.
“I shall be gone only a few weeks,” she said, and gave a cheery
good-by. But the operation proved more serious than had been
expected, and after two days of struggle to regain strength, on Friday,
July 12, her brave heart ceased to beat.
Of the many friends of The Crisis and the association none gave
so fully of the leisure snatched from a busy life. She came to us in
1909, after our first conference. She had been deeply stirred by what
she had heard and seen, and she asked the chairman if she might be
of service. She was a newspaper writer—was there not something
she could do that would be of help?
Such an offer was eagerly accepted, and during the following
summer and autumn she edited and superintended the publication
of the proceedings of the First National Negro Conference. In Novem-
ber of the next year The Crisis was started, and it was then that the
association began to understand its great acquisition. One of the best
newspaper women in the country, she brought to The Crisis an at-
tractive literary style, a rare judgment, and an amazing ability to
accomplish a prodigious amount of work in a minimum amount of time.
She carried on a large correspondence with Crisis contributors, she
edited Opinion and Men of the Month, and her judgment was appealed
to many times in the making up of the magazine. In the busy days
of proofreading and dummying she did her full share. She and the
senior editor toiled together long hours, good comrades both, unwearied
in their efforts to make each number of The Crisis a little better than
the last. She had a profound belief in the genius of the man with whom
she worked and was inestimably helpful in her criticism and praise.
This was her free and glad gift to our cause. But in the meantime
she earned her livelihood as a member of the staff of the Sunday Times,
and each week saw two, three, sometimes four articles written between
Monday morning and Thursday night. Each had her distinctive style, and
was entertaining as well as instructive. One of her last articles was an
account of a recent book on law by the National Association Js president,
Mr. Moorrield Storey. She was a good linguist, and would come to our
office in the morning with a volume in French on “Primitive Man” (she
was especially interested in this subject), and before the day was over
she would have written a delightful running account of the best the book
contained. Her memory was remarkable. She never took notes during
an interview; but her reports were so accurate, she so well and so enter-
tainingly reproduced the man and his ideas, that those who had met her
— ' —'
once were always glad to stop and give her of their busy time. At
the colleges and libraries and museums of the city she made many
| friends.*
She was born in the tropics, at Nassau, on one of those lovely
West Indian islands that gleam pure white amid the ravishingly blue
waters. The gaiety and kindliness of the Southern land was her birth-
right. She danced along the bright beach, and had a merry word for
all who crossed her path. When a child of six she was invited to a
fancy-dress party, and her mother, doubting her ability at costume-
making, mourned to the child’s father that she could not make a proper
dress.
‘‘Put her in any gown she has,” the father answered, ;‘and name
her Sunbeam.”
And so we name her in our hearts. With the rest of us dismal and
rainy days are not uncommon; but, however hard life touched her, the
sunlight was always in her face.
She was most kindly in her judgments. She liked the French
saying: “He has the faults of his qualities.” The “quality,” the
ability that abides in each of us, this she always recognized. For the
rest the fault was only a shadow, a negative accompanying a fine and
worthy nature.
Her affection for the Negro began with her birth. Reared among
the black and colored people her heart knew no color line. The island
of her birth, under British rule, was generous to the Negro and wholly
free from the lawlessness so common in the land of her adoption. The
colored boys and girls with whom she played were her good friends and
remained so throughout her life. When a girl of 16 she was sent to
Boston to complete her education; and there she foimd the New
Englanders somewhat aloof and chill. But there was one girl with
dark hair and rich brown coloring who won her heart. They soon became
friends; but after a few weeks the Boston girl with brave New England
conscience came to her new friend and told her that she was colored.
The answer was a laugh and a warm handclasp. 4 4 It must have been
that that made me at once care for you,” she said; 4‘you make me think
of home.” Throughout her life, ah, so short, for she had not reached
middle age when she died, she was at home with colored folk. And
they responded swiftly to her straightforward affection and sympathy.
As I sit here at her desk, striving clumsily to do the work she did
so well, listening, unconsciously, for her footstep, starting at each sound
I of a voice in the adjoining room; I ask myself what would she wish
me to write could she stand beside me and, laying her hand on mine,
guide my pen? Her bright spirit sees not dimly now, but face to face.
Would her word be like this?
The dear earth is very foolish. It is making such a pother about
color and race and forgetting the spirit in man. As though for one
moment of the eternal moments it matters whether a man’s skin is
black or white or red or yellow, whether he lives in a palace or a cabin.
These things are not life. They are only shadows. Forget them and
stand in the sunlight of gentleness and brotherhood—the light most
precious.	w n
VACATION DAYS
^Breeze is blowin’ wif perfume,
Jes’ enough to lease you;
Hollyhocks is all in bloom,
Srnellin’ fu’ to please you.
Oo ’ way, folks, an’ let me ’lone,
Times is gettin’ dearah—
Surnmah’s settin’ on de th’orie,
An’ i’rn a-layiri’ neah huh!”
rT7UK CRISIS lias asked its readers for
information regarding vacation days,
and lias received answers from all points of
the compass, from Florida to Michigan, from
Maine to Alberta. Looking through these
many communications we may gather a few
important facts.
One fact, all too evident, is that few of
our readers are able to leave their work for
any length of time. “We’re too busy trying
to earn a living,” they write, “to think about
summer resorts.” To this large body of peo-
ple the picnic, the evening car ride, the
excursion to some neighboring park is the
only escape from the city’s toil and heat.
“How are you welcomed when visiting pic-
nic grounds and parks?” we have asked.
“You are tolerated if you are very careful,”
is one answer to this question, and it seems
to cover a large number of cities. You may
go to the beach, but you may not hire a
bathing suit; you rnay walk about under the
trees, but you may riot dance in the newly
erected hall; you may ride in the trolleys, but
you may not take the sightseeing automo-
biles; these are some of the ways in which
you are “tolerated.” At least, so word comes
to us from the Fast, in the West things
seem better, and we hear of the best of good
fellowship in some Western towns.
When they have the money and the time to
take a vacation, our correspondents show us
that the choice of a summer resort is limited.
The white New Yorker, for instance, may
choose from a thousand different places the
one to which lie will go with his family. lie
rnay turn to the hills and camp out in the
Adirondacks or board among the White
Mountains; or, loving the sea, he may settle
in some one of the innumerable little villago
towns among the rocks along the coast of
Muine. He has hut to choose and pay his
hoard. But you, if you arc colored, will
knock in vain at the farmhouse door tor
hoard and lodging. The beautiful, inexpen-
sive, out-of-the-way places are out of your
way, indeed. The only sure means of escap-
ing discrimination is to board an ocean
liner, preferably a French or German one,
and make your pilgrimage abroad.
But since only the very favored few can
do this, the colored people are providing sum-
mer resorts for themselves, running hotels
and acquiring pleasant cottage sites. Our
correspondents have sent us word of a num-
ber of these places, though we do riot doubt
the list could he greatly extended. Atlantic
IN THE CAT8KII1L8
VACATION 'DAYS
187
RATTING ON THE EIO GRANDE, JAMAICA
City ranks first as a watering resort. Here
is Fitzgerald’s Hotel; Mrs. Poole’s cottage,
Ridley’s cottage and others. The colored
people have their own drug store, their bath-
ing pavilion, and in the summer months they
may he seen in numbers on the famous
boardwalk. Sixteen-day excursions are run
to Atlantic City from as far west as Ohio,
and from many points north and south.
Moving down the Jersey coast, we find a
second resort at Sea Isle. Mr. James Gor-
don, superintendent of the Brooklyn Howard
Colored Orphan Asylum, owns a hotel here
that accommodates 150 guests. Dr. Owen
M.	Waller of Brooklyn is among the
cottagers.
At Cape May is the large hotel owned and
operated by Mr. E. W Dale. All this Jersey
coast is one long stretch of sand, with re-
freshing breezes from the open sea.
Board at these various resorts ranges from
$5 to $10 a week.	•
Our correspondents write of Arundel and
of Somerset Beach, Md.; of Buckroe Beach,
Va., and, turning inland, of Silcott Springs,
Va., and pleasant boarding places among the
mountains at Asheville, N. C. Turning north
we find an attractive boarding place at
Shawnee on the Delaware, in Pennsylvania,
at Catskill, and at Saratoga, where the well-
known Thompson cottage is located.
From Chicago we learn of a new and at-
tractive summer place—West Michigan resort.
West Michigan resort is opposite Chicago
across the lake. The colored people have
bought ten acres, with several hundred feet
of lake beach. The colored farmers in the
vicinity are a prosperous group, and good
rooms with excellent food can be secured.
The property is being admirably developed.
Some of our Crisis readers make their
summer outings at the colored schools. Wil-
berforce College, West Virginia Institute and
many others are places at which colored peo-
ple may secure good and reasonable board
during the summer months. Those who at-
tended the Niagara movement conference at
Harper’s Ferry in 190G remember the de-
lightful situation and excellent fare at Storer
College. Harper’s Ferry is one of the ex-
cursion places which many colored people
make their Mecca in the summer months.
For persons whose-outings must be short
the excursions offered by the railroads and
steamships are popular. Old Point Comfort,
Niagara Falls and Harper’s Ferry are among
the places our friends write us of. In the
West we learn of Colorado Springs, with its
Garden of the Gods, and of the entrancing
sights of the Pacific Coast. Such trips are
not only a delight but an education as well.
Southerners often come North for their
summer outings, and visit with friends in
one of the large cities. This is true of the
white as well as of the colored, and New
York and Chicago each summer gain many
thousand sightseers. A country farmer, who
for a number of summers welcomed a couple
of city “fresh-air” children to his farm, giv-
ing them their board for nothing, declared
at last that he thought the city folk should
reciprocrate; that they should invite his chil-
dren to see ihe wonders of which the city
child loved to boast. Doubtless they would
BY THE SEA
1S8
THE CRISIS
have enjoyed it. Certainly the summer
visitors in the cities we know seem to have
a happy time, and to enjoy the variety of
good things provided. Perhaps the pleasant-
est places are the large towns near the unde-
veloped country; of such a place one corre-
spondent writes: “It is good to roam the
hills, to view the natural scenery and to visit
the moving-picture shows.”
Not all of the city’s colored summer visi-
tors come for a good time only. There are
always a few in the colleges, New York,
Chicago and Cambridge claiming their share.
This is an excellent time for the teacher who
desires a deeper knowledge of his or her
subject to study with men high in their
professions. The summer schools of philan-
thropy, too, are becoming better known in
the South, and each year a few colored peo-
ple enter them. The New York school has
given its certificate to students from Atlanta,
Nashville, Washington and other cities. These
young men and women learn much of the
multitudinous activities of a great munici-
pality and sometimes stay on to share in the
city’s work.
The final fact that is brought keenly to us
is the number of colored people who make it
possible in the summer to return to their
homes. The South seems filled with blessed
mothers and grandmothers, fathers, uncles,
cousins, who stand in the open doorways with
their hearty welcomes. “We go home to
visit,” is the most frequent answer received
from our vacation questioning. The elevator
boy who has worked twelve hours a day in
the hotel for seven days in the week saves
his tips and takes the boat to his mother in
far-away Jacksonville. The West Indian
porter carries his savings to the steamship
company and sails down to the island para-
dise that hems in the Caribbean Sea. The
busy physician feels the breath of the Blue
Mountains in the midst of the city’s heat,
leaves his practice with his neighbor and
returns to the farmhouse in the high hills.
The tired seamstress finds herself one morn-
ing walking among the pines, past the
log-cabin schoolhouse,'on down the road to
the open door of home. The welcome is so
hearty, the memories so pleasant, that the
return home marks the brightest of vacation
days.
WELCOME HOME
SHORT STORY COMPETITION
A number of stories have been sent us in response to the invitation to our Crisis
readers. We may roughly divide them into three groups:
Didactic stories. Some of these have had good plots, others none, but nearly all
have been hurt artistically by the always present desire to instruct the reader. This is a
common fault among writers in America. An able critic has said of us: “We art*
preachers, not artists.”
Old-time “darky” stories. From the literary viewpoint these have been the best.
But the most of them have been too evidently old time, copying a -style so well known as
to be stereotyped. We want humorous tales, but we would like them in a little less
threadbare clothes.
Character sketches. The story that we print below comes under this bead. It is
slight, but it bears the stamp of sincerity and truth. It shows us a young colored girl
from a viewpoint new to many. It interprets for us a bit of human life.
We hope that our readers will send us other stories. We want the good plots well
worked out; we want merriment and laughter; we want pictures of the real colored
America.
THE SERVANT
By FENTON JOHNSON
H sho’ ain't gwine tuh intimate with the leading social workers of
wohk fob dese hyar cul- both races. Mr. Crawford belonged to the
lud folks no mo’. ’Deed Elmore Club, an organization of colored
ah isn’t.”	professional and business men, who had pur-
And in these words, • chased a neat little clubhouse where they
spoken during great could play billiards and entertain their
emotional stress, Eliza wives and friends at dances and whist par-
Jane, three weeks removed from the South- ties. Pie had received his education at Fisk
land, announced to herself her dissatisfac- University and a Chicago law school, and
tion with the Crawfords.	was looked upon with high respect by the
“It’s nufHn, but wohk, wohk, wohk all de black world,
time as if ah nevah gits tiahed. It’s ’Liza dis Eliza came to them from the backwoods
and ’Liza dat an’ nevah do dey say when de of Georgia with one gingham dress and a
day am done: ‘Won’t you come wif us to de pair of squeaky new shoes. Mrs. Crawford
festival or de ’vival meetin’?’ Ah’s gwine engaged her partly on account of her pretty
tuh quit dese high-toned folks, an’ git in face and her seeming willingness to do as
some white fam’ly. Ah’s too lonely heah.”	she was bidden; and for a day or two the
The Crawfords were well-to-do Chicago	little Georgian appeared satisfied, for -she
Negroes. Mr. Crawford was a lawyer, who was in financial straits and the liberal wages
in recent years had acquired a fortune were uppermost in her mind. But when
through real estate. His wife was the Mrs. Crawford advanced her half of her
daughter of a Southern Congressman of re- wages the irresponsible creature had enough
construction days, and was consequently to satisfy her few wants and began to dis-
proud of her money and family. They had cover the faults in her situation. Mrs.
two children, Wallace and Aline, who were Crawford was too haughty; Aline too proud
students of the university, and very popular and cold; Wallace never had a pleasant word
among the young people of their race. Ac- for her or asked her to go out with him; and
CQrding to their point of view those who Mr. Crawford was splenetic and hard to
were inferior to them intellectually were not please. The work was too confining; she
their equals socially and the servant’s posi- longed for the open air and for the freedom
tion was the lowest plane of society. Mrs. of her own Georgia land. Every night the
Crawford was a prominent clubwoman and lights on State Street shone so brightly,
190
THE CRISIS
emphasizing her loneliness in a city where
she had neither friends nor acquaintances.
In Georgia she was not confronted with
the social problem. There she worked for
the whites and associated with the blacks;
there the color line obliterated every other
line society should wish to draw. No rich
Negroes asserted their superiority over her;
she was just plain Eliza and they were Moses
or Mandy, as the case might be. And now
that she was up North, where money was the
basis of social stratum, inferiority within the
race was sickening and disappointing.
That was the situation that confronted
her that Friday evening as she sat before the
little mirror in her room.
Softly to her ears came the low strains
of a violin. Music! How it touched her
soul! Could she resist the spell ? Could
she, who loved to hear the drowsy humming
of the bees and the endless song of the
brook back there in Georgia, refrain from
listening to the melody of rosin and bow?
With low, measured step she left her room
and went upstairs to the library, where the
Friday Evening Culture Club, a young peo-
ple’s organization, was being entertained by
Wallace and Aline. With a slight tremor,
for she feared that she was breakiug some
social rule, she knocked on the door, which
was presently opened by Wallace himself,
standing before her with bow and violin.
“ ’Scuse me, please. Ah jes’ wants tuh
heali de music, dat’s all. Ah laks music
so,” she said, her voice trembling with fear.
“Oh, it is you,” was all that Wallace said,
as he motioned her to a seat in the corner.
There were about twenty young people in
tl\e library and the music room. They were
elegantly dressed, intelligent in countenance,
and many of them handsome. At the time
Eliza entered Aline was playing a selection
from Chopin on the piano, and the members
of the club were conversing in low tones.
Eliza could not understand the drift of their
conversation; such names as Ibsen, Gals-
worthy and Shaw were mentioned. The
problem novel was discussed, and current
politics was made the ground for friendly
argument among the boys. All this was
Greek to the little unlettered girl in the
corner, and her large black eyes opened wide
with astonishment and her breath heaved
with wonder.
Presently a young octoroon girl, who had
acquired some reputation among her people
as a concert singer, was called upon by the
presiding officer to render a contribution to
the program. Aline accompanied her as in
a voice both sweet and technically correct she
rendered a love song from Schubert, and for
an encore sang in a tone of passionate
tenderness the “Swing Low, Sweet Chariot,”
of plantation days.
The singer was followed by Wallace, who
said: “I might give you something from
the masters, but as we have music of'our
own I think it is better that we should
cultivate that.”
And so the young musician tuned his
instrument and started to play the sorrow
songs that can never die, because they are
the genuine expression of American life.
As the wild passionate music came forth,
trembling with its pathos, a tear glistened in
Eliza’s eye. She saw the little cabin that
she called home, the burning sand where the
Negro children played, the cotton field with
its wealth of snowy blossoms, and the lane
on a moonlight night when the dusky lovers
plighted their troth, free from the problem
of color. She saw the grave where her
mother lay, gone to sleep too soon because
poverty had preyed on her and won the
battle. She saw the river winding its way
through eternity, bringing as its tribute the
body of her father, given to the water by a
crowd of hilarious poor whites, drunk with
cheap corn whiskey.
And he, who thus played the old planta-
tion songs, was he not more than she? He
could throw on the screen of her mind pic-
tures of her home life by means of an
instrument that she could not even wield.
He and his sister were versed in the lore and
the music of civilization. Within her bosom
was nothing save the emotions that she
could feel so vividly but could not express.
To him culture had granted the gift to in-
terpret the joys and sorrows of the human
soul; and some mysterious power had denied
her that sweet privilege.
As all this flashed across her mind, she
realized her utter littleness. Rising, her face
wet with tears, she left the room so quietly
that no one noticed her departure.
When she had reached her room she threw
herself across the bed and sobbed as if her
heart were bursting.
“Ah wants tuh luhn! Ah wants tuh luhn!
Ah’s so po’ an’ nuflin’ lak. Ah wants tuh
luhn.”____________
LESSONS FROM RUSSIA
By I. M. RUBINOW, late of the Imperial Russian Civil Service
OU may have heard it said
many times that Russia
and the United States are
closely bound together by
ties of historical friend-
ship. Of late, however,
there has been a good mod-
ern reason for such friendship between
official Russia and capitalistic America, for
in either country the powers that be could
point at the other country and say to its
protesting citizenship: “There, look across
the ocean; they have the same troubles on
the other side.” If a prominent Negro
leader could say to his followers: “Why, you
have no reason to complain, for you are bet-
ter off than the peasantry or the Jews in
Russia,” the Russian government -.could
with equal conviction thus address its Jews:
“You think our treatment of you is un-
civilized and cruel; look, then, and see
whether the most advanced republic in the
world gives any better treatment to its for-
eign races, such as the Negro.” It is this
touching community of interests that has
given the Russian Jew, transplanted to this
country, a good deal of interest in and sym-
pathy for the Negro, and for the same
reason, perhaps, the intelligent American
Negro has always had a more than
ordinary interest in the fate of the Russian
Jew.
Different as are ethuologically these two
racial groups, the Jew and the Negro, their
common suffering from race prejudice has
brought them together, if not in their own
eyes, then in the eyes of humanity at large;
and it is perhaps worth while mentioning
this point, that one of the very few American
books on the problem of race prejudice, that
by Prof. Shaler of Harvard, devotes one-
half to the Negro and the other half to the
Jew.
Some time ago a distinguished Russian
professor of economics had been visiting this
country, of which he admitted he knew very
little. Naturally the Negro problem struck
his attention immediately. He had no time
to study it, and so he asked me to tell him
the essential features of this problem in as
few words as possible. I thus addressed
him: “You know all the economic and legal
and political disqualifications under which
the Russian peasant suffered terribly through
centuries of slavery and is still suffering
after half a century' of so-called freedom.”
“Yes,” he said, he knew, for this was the
subject of his life work. “Do you know,”
I continued, “the social and legal, and also
political and economic disqualifications under
which the Russian Jew is forced to live be-
cause of religious intolerance and an un-
reasoning racial prejudice?” And he said
that since there were not many Jews in his
part of Russia, he had not given much
thought to it, assuming that to be a local
problem, but that he knew a few intelligent
Russian Jews and felt very' sorry for their
condition. Then, to complete my cross-
examination, I said:	“Now imagine
10,000,000 people who must suffer the com-
bined effect of almost all difficulties under
which both the Russian peasant and the
Russian Jew are living, and you will get
some conception of the Negro problem* in
this country.”
My good Russian professor raised his
hands to heaven and in an awestricken voice
exclaimed: “Mv God. how can thev stand
it?”
It is the same bond of sympathy which I
have spoken of above that forced me to take
up the study of the Negro problem when I
first moved South ten years ago, and to keep
up a more or less active interest in it since
then, and with these ten years of study back
of me I am still often inclined to repeat the
same question of my Russian friend: "How
can they stand it?” How many an Ameri-
can has been asking the same question in
regard to the Russian peasant and to the
Russian Jew, and perhaps some ten years
ago that question was as difficult to answer.
But some things do happen in Russia.
Some five or six years ago things which will
go down in history as the great Russian
Revolution of 1905 to 1907, happened, and
in these years both peasant and Jew in
different ways proved that they did not want
to stand it, and if nothing of any great
permanent value has as yet been achieved,
and if a good many of the old troubles have
192
THE
CRISIS
come back, we have at least obtained an
answer to the question: they stand it be-
cause they are overwhelmed by a superior
force, and perhaps the same answer might
have satisfied my Russian professor in re-
gard to the American Negro.
Now to many, patriotic Americans any
such comparisons between the problems of
despotic Russia and democratic America
may seem to be very far fetched. Of course,
I do not at all intend to minimize these
political differences, but let me point out to
you the no less obvious-points of similarity.
Only fifty years ago both the Russian
peasant and the American Negro were chat-
tel slaves. There were great plantations
growing wheat and rye instead of cotton
and corn, but growing it with slave labor.
There were the noble slave owners, aristo-
cratic, even kind, but sometimes inhumanly
cruel, usually quite indolent and unbusi-
nesslike. There were large dwellings, full
of useless domestic service. There was the
same contempt of trade and industry and
there were even the same characteristic mani-
festations of gross immorality, resulting from
ownership of human beings with which the
South was familiar, so that in many respects
the Russian land owner and the Southern
slave owner had a very similar psychology.
But no less interesting are the similarities
between the American slave and the peasant
serf, though I do not suppose anyone has
tried to trace any racial relationship be-
tween the curly-haired Negro and the flaxen-
haired Slav. There was often the same
canine, unreasoning fidelity toward one’s
owner, and that was often used as an argu-
ment to prove the divine origin of serfdom,
though serfdom was a new institution in
Russia, as slavery was in America. On the
other hand, there was among the more inde-
pendent spirits the same secret longing for
freedom. There were fugitive serfs • and
even the same brutal acts of protest and re-
venge at times.
The intellectual abolition movement in
this country had its counterpart in Russia,
and at the same time. And it was fought
out on practically the same line of thought.
There were the spirited onslaughts on slav-
ery, which were met, as they were here, by
appeals to history, economics and religion.
As the slaveholder and the slave were usu-
ally of the same race and nationality, it
was somewhat difficult to marshal biology
in defense of slavery. That was really the
only essential difference. And perhaps in
both countries the intellectual arguments
would not have succeeded in destroying the
peculiar institution, if it were not for the
pressure of powerful economic facts which
made slavery a cause of weakness and not
of power. Russian history has immortal-
ized the saying of Czar Alexander II., when
he tried to convince the nobility of the ab-
solute necessity of emancipation: “Gentle-
men, if emancipation will not come peace-
ably from above, it will come forcibly from
below.”
* It may be a pure coincidence, but surely
it seems significant that the emancipation
of the peasant and the Negro slave took
place practically at the same time. The
Russian emancipation act was promulgated
in the same year that the great war began
in this country. But the conditions of eman-
cipation in the two countries were radically
different. For the Russian peasant was at
least given some opportunity to acquire
land, even though at an exorbitant price,
and was left undisturbed as an independent
tiller of the soil.
No matter what its shortcomings, the
method of emancipation of the Russian
peasants was a masterpiece of statesman-
ship as compared with the crude methods
which have been used in a similar emer-
gency in this country. The methods of the
Russian autocracy and nobility were bad
enough, but the methods of democratic and
republican America were infinitely worse.
The Russian act at any rate represented
results of some thought and study. The
emancipation of the Negro viewed from a
distance looks like a hasty act prompted by
a childish faith in the efficacy and all-
sufficiency of personal freedom and freedom
of contract as a foundation for economic
life. Only read the contemporary writings
of Carl Schurz, one of the noblest men of
the time, and notice his absolute conviction
that by a simple substitution of' the rela-
tionship of the employer and employee for
those of master and slave will all economic
and social problems be solved instantane-
ously.
The political and legal ideas of the lead-
ing spirits of the times were fairly definite.
It was wrong to own a human being. It
was necessary to preserve the Union. It
was necessary to re-establish peace. These
and similar ones were clearly announced
principles. But what was the expected fate
LESSONS FROM RUSSIA
of several million emancipated beings?
With the stroke of a pen and of a sword
the millions of ex-slaves, without property,
were transformed into free citizens, free not
only of individual restraint but also of
visible means of subsistence. And yet
around them were millions of acres of fertile
land, which they had cultivated for over
two centuries.
With such a different start titty years ago
it was no wonder that the development of
the Russian peasant and the American
Negro proceeded on somewhat different
lines. Yet the essential similarity between
the two masses of agricultural population
in lands of retarded economic development
is seen even to-day. On the whole, the Rus-
sian peasant is as poor as the American
Negro, and at times even poorer, for nature
is less kind to him, and the variability
of the Russian crops causes those fearful
famines from which the Negro, thanks to
the even rainfall on his land, is fortunately
guaranteed. He is more illiterate than the
Negro: Thus, in 1S97, according to the last
census, 66 per cent, of the male population
of the Russian villages an^ S3 per cent, of
the female population over 10 years of age
could neither read nor write. Fie is* no
more familiar with fruits of culture and
civilization, neither has he the fine stimu-
lating effect of a highly-civilized popula-
tion. His usual dwelling is a one-room log
cabin with a straw roof, and he is no more
familiar with the law^ of health and hygiene
than is the backwoods plantation hand. He
is unenterprising and unbusinesslike. He is
often accused of being lazy, for he does
not know how to work systematically. He
is not wasteful, as a rule, that is true; he is
rather inclined to be overfrugal, but he
spends enormous sums for vodka, his na-
tional drink, and it has often been said that
the drinking habits of the Russian peasant
are the only force that keeps the financial
structure of the Russian autocracy from
collapsing. He does not often treat his wife
with the consideration due to a lady, and
lets her work in the field, either on' her
own farm or for hire. His wife bears him
many children, and an appalling number
of them die. He is very religious, but also
very superstitious; not any too moral, at
least not any too strict in sex relations. The
most sincere, most self-devoted friends of
the Russian peasants do not deny these
facts, but try to explain them by the pecu-
liar economic and social conditions of their
existence. For it so happens that both the
Russian peasant and the middle classes in
Russia are of the same hue, and therefore
no racial criticism is possible and no racial
apology necessary.
The long list of adverse characteristics
of the Russian peasant may have sounded
to you like an extract from a speech by
John Temple Graves or ex-Governor Var-
danian on the American Negro.
A highly skilled American statistician re-
cently pointed even at the Negro rate of
mortality as a racial characteristic. It is
true that the Negro race in the United
States shows a death rate of 30 per thou-
sand, while the white race has a rate of
only 17.3. But, as I have shown recently
in a brief article, an investigation in Cen-
tral Russia demonstrated the interesting
fact that the mortality of the peasants
showed a rate of 29.2; moreover, that it
varied in an inverse ratio to the land owned,
so that the families with smaller land own-
ings bad a greater death rate. Thus, on
one hand, were the peasants with less than
14 acres per family: they had a death rate
of 32.7; and, on the other hand, there were
the few peasants who held more than 135
acres with a death rate of only 19.0 per
cent., or a little higher ihan that of the
white American.
Here is, then, the first important lesson
which Russia may teach, how utterly unsci-
entific, how utterly childish and silly is an
effort to explain the economic, the intel-
lectual or moral status of the American
Negro by any inherent racial traits in view
of the identical results accomplished by simi-
lar economic forces in an entirely different
race. It is true that after the brilliant
work of Prof. Boaz has been done, there
may seem no need for this lesson; but the
lesson of Russia to me is even more con-
vincing, for it is a lesson drawn from
thousands of facts which may not be con-
tradicted.
So much for the peasant. Now let us
turn our attention to the Russian Jew.
Now, what points of similarity are there
between the Russian Jew and the American
Negro? None whatever. If I were to pro-
pose you a conundrum: What difference is
there between the Russian Jew and the
American Negro? the proper answer would
be: All the difference in the world. No
one denies the Caucasian origin of the Jew.
194
THE CRISIS
And even (he worst enemy of the Jew in
Russia has not dared to bring forth the plea
of racial inferiority against him. In fact,
the official justification of the Russian gov-
ernment in its policy against the Jews is
the necessity to protect the simple-minded
Russian against the abler, shrewder Jew.
So here we have a theory of racial antag-
onism based upon a claim of race superi-
ority rather than race inferiority. Unlike
the Negro, the Russian Jew is primarily a
city dweller; unlike the Negro, he is on a
higher educational level than the masses
surrounding him. Yet the Jew is an outlaw
under the law, restricted in his civil, political
and economic rights. Many occupations are
closed to him, his school facilities are
limited, he is not eligible to political office,
and has scarcely any franchises left; and,
of course, he suffers from a good deal of
social discrimination. He is often laughed
and sneered at by the members of the
admittedly inferior Slavic race. It is a dis-
grace to marry a Jewish girl—though she
may be used as prey in true Russian fashion.
A specific Jewish crime has been invented
in Russia—now that sounds quite familiar,
does it not?—though the Jewish crime—the
ritual murder—is altogether the product of
a wild imagination. And pogroms happen
in Russia and are as brutal or worse even
than lynching is in the South.
Of course, all these things are officially
explained as a sad but unavoidable result
of race antagonism. Why does Russia re-
fuse to better the condition o£ the Jews?
Because the people would not stand for it.
The people simply must every now and
then kill a few Jews (or a few Negroes)
to give vent to the rational race antagonism.
But what is the truth? That Jew baiting is
the most convenient method to divert the
attention of an ignorant though dissatisfied
mass from the real political and social
problems. So every time there is evidence
of rising dissatisfaction in Russia there is
a pogrom. And every time the supremacy
of the solid Democracy is threatened by any
living issues, there is an Atlanta riot.
Even as the Russian government has the
power to stop antagonism in less than
twelve hours, so our responsible authorities
could stop any lynching bees were it once
seriously understood that these affairs would
not be connived at.
And it is with a good deal of justice
that the most despicable elements in Russia
have replied to our American protests
against Russia’s treatment of Jews, by
pointing at Atlanta and asking: “What
right have you to protest? Do you treat
foreign races any better?”
And there is your second lesson from
Russia: that race inferiority has nothing to
do with violent race persecution, but an ex-
clusive position under the law, a lack of
political rights, foster and develop the race
nniormnicmc flYl/1

nnnlomnl. I'm"
higher race, and that the worst expression
of this race antagonism usually may be
traced to sordid motives and partisan
politics.
Now let us pursue our analogy a little
further. The Russian Jews and the Ameri-
can Negroes have one thing very much in
common. They do not like to be kicked
about and abused, to have their skulls
broken, or their houses burned, because they
both happen to be human. And so a good
many Jews emigrate—for they have that
advantage over the Negro, they can go to
the United States and be happy. But that
does not solve the problem. Then there
is the movement for the return to the Holy
Land, their own land. They call it Pales-
tine; you call it Liberia, I believe. But
we left Palestine many years before you
left Liberia, and so among the masses at
large there is not very much enthusiasm
for it. The majority of the Jews have a
strong conviction that the problem of the
Russian Jew can be solved right only in
Russia, as the problem of the American
Negro in America only. Som6 of them
embrace Christianity, and move away from
their natural surroundings, and spend
the rest of their lives in the hopeless task
of hiding their Jewish birth—crossing the
color line you call it, I believe—and they
are considered traitor's to the race—that,
too, is familiar to you.
And then there are all kinds of leaders.
Some say: Be good; obey all the laws, even
the most unjust ones. Show your love to
the powers that be; sing Hallelujah to the
great name; perhaps men may grow more
tender hearted. Meanwhile work hard and
acquire some property; for you know a rich
Jew is not treated so badly after all. And
that is true; a rich Jew is treated even bet-
ter than a rich Negro may ever be expected
to be treated. Yet, notwithstanding all the
supposed commercial talents of the Jew,
that as yet has failed in solving the Jewish
LESSONS FROM RUSSIA
195
problem in Russia just as it will fail to
solve the Negro problem in America.
It is very encouraging, therefore, that
within the last decade an entirely new ten-
dency has arisen among the Russian Jews,
an entirely new hope. Not flight, not beg-
ging mercy of the victor, not dreaming of
the Holy Land—not even money—but fight
is the thing the Jewish people have turned
to as a solution. Economic fight through
the unions in the struggle against poverty,
self-defense committees in fighting the Rus-
sian lynching bees, and a political fight for
political and civil rights. It is true that
the results of this fight for rights have not
as yet been great, that they have lost in
the failure of the Russian revolution. But
the results as far as the Jewish race itself
is concerned have remained. These are
a sense of racial dignity and pride, without
which no race advance is possible; and the
lessons of the Russian revolution are no
less valuable because the revolution has
failed.
I can state them in a few words: In the
revolutionary ranks all racial antagonisms
have disappeared. That was to be ex-
pected. But even outside of the ranks of
the direct fighters for the revolution, as
soon as the breath of new political and
social ideals had reached Russian society,
there were no more Jews and Gentiles, but
only citizens of one land fighting for politi-
cal and social justice. Thus was the lie
given to the theory that race antagonism is
organic and inevitable. It is inevitable in
a state of political reaction, of social stag-
nation, in a state of gross materialism, where
social ideals are unheard. And that is the
reason why you have social antagonism in
the South. And thus, as your present* sta-
tus is nothing but a system of retarded
development, your hopes are the hopes of
human progress and civilization. It is
quite true that the triumphs of humanity
and brotherhood of races in Russia did not
last very long—did not survive the revolu-
tion. But that only corroborates the truth
of my statement. It is by the degree of
unity between races and nations that you
can measure the general level of a coun-
try’s civilization.
And this, if you will, is the third useful
lesson that Russia may teach us. Fighting,
active resistance, not humble begging for
charity, is the effective weapon of a sub-
jugated race as of a subjugated class.
But fight not alone. Seek your natural
historical allies. It is my personal convic-
tion that as the Jews of Russia have found
their natural allies in the working class, so
will the American Negro. It matters not
that the Russian workingman was often un-
just and cruel to the Jew. and it matters
not that the American workingman is often
unjust and cruel to the Negro. Don’t strike
at the article that happens to be nearest
to you first; but examine carefully who it
is that profits by your oppression, and when
you have found that, in iiiue cases out of ten,
you have properly placed the responsibility
for the oppression. In his ignorance the
American workingman may be influenced to
abuse the Negro: but the time is not long
in coming when he will understand that he
has nothing to lose and a good deal to gain
from the advancement of his co-worker.
And when that day comes a good deal will
have been accomplished for the solution
of the Negro problem.
LYNCHED A WOMAN
find that Anne Bostwick came to
her death at the hands of parties
unknown/’ was the verdict rendered by the
coroner’s jury that investigated the lynching
of the colored woman who killed her mistress,
the wife of a wealthy planter named Jordan,
at Pinehurst, Ga., June 24.
The usual verdict by the same old type of
jury, but in this case the sex and well-known
mental condition of the victim have elimi-
nated the customary excuse which is generally
dilated upon with sensational detail and fre-
quently without a vestige of evidence as
justification for mob violence. With that
progressive form of local government which
constitutes every man his own sheriff, there
seems to be no doubt that the colored woman
is to have equal rights, privileges and pro-
tection with the colored man. There is to
be no discrimination on grounds of sex.
Pinehurst has advanced ideas.
That the unusual features of the lynching
were thoroughly appreciated by the com-
munity may be inferred from the following
extract from the Cincinnati (O.) Enquirer
of June 26:
“Great crowds attended and saw the shot-
riddled body of the Negress cut from the
tree. Sheriff Bennett has made no arrests
and none is expected. The truth is that there
is general rejoicing over the lynching of the
Negress and the lynchers are known to
everybody. The Negress was lynched from
an auto. The machine in which she was
sitting was driven under a tree, a rope placed
about her neck and the other end tied to a
limb of the tree. The machine was started at
high speed and the Negress left banging.
Her body was then shot to pieces. Pier eyes
were shot out and such a fusillade directed
at her waist that she was cut in two.”
Commenting upon the verdict of the coro-
nor’s jury the same paper says: “The ver-
dict was rendered in the face of the fact
that the automobiles in which the lynching
party pursued the slayer and the sheriff are
known to be owned by some of the most
prominent citizens of Cordele, Vienna and
Pinehurst.”
The circumstances of the murder of Mrs.
Jordan, so far as we have been able to
ascertain them, were as follows:
Anne Bostwick, who was about 60 years
old, had been employed by the Jordans
for some years, and bore the repu-
tation of being a good servant, though at
times she showed a bad disposition. “Her
father, Thomas McAfee,” to quote the Macon
Telegraph, “is considered one of the very
best representatives of his race. He is
honest, a successful farmer, and of the large
family he has raised none has ever been
convicted of crime.” The morning of the
murder the colored woman had been severely
reprimanded by Mrs. Jordan and dismissed
from her service. Possibly anticipating
trouble, Mrs. Jordan kept her door locked
until late afternoon. About 4:30, as she
stepped out on the veranda, she was seized
by the Bostwick woman, who was concealed
behind a pillar, stabbed three times and her
head nearly severed from her body. The
THE BURDEN
197
colored woman then went to a field where Mr. Jordan was at work and informed him	COLORED	MEN LYNCHED TRIAL.		WITHOUT
of her horrible deed.	1885	:.	. .. .	78	1899...		 84
Surely a crime sufficiently ghastly to	1886		....	71	1900...		107
arouse any community, but a crime for which	1887		.... 80	1901...		107
the community itself was wholly responsible,	1888		... . 95	1902...		 86
as is testified by representative people who	1889			1903...		 S6
knew the woman and bv extracts like the	1890		.... 90	1904...		 83
following, taken from a Southern paper, the	1891		. ... 121	1905...		 61
Macon Telegraph of June 30, 1912:	1892		... . 155	1906...		 64
“While living here (Fort Valley), the	1893		... . 154	1907...			 . . 60
lynched Negress was tried by a jury and	1894		... . 134	1908...		 93
found a fit subject for the lunatic asvlum,	1895		. . . . 112	1909...		 73
but owing to the crowded condition of that	1S96		... . 80	1910...	
institution she could not be received. In her	1S97		... . 122	1911. ..		 63
rational moments she was a good reliable	1S98		.... 102		—
servant but became violent at times.”	Total					2,521
HISTORIC DAYS IN AUGUST
1.	Slavery terminated in British Colonies.
1S34.
2.	Lecompton (Kansas) Constitution re-
jected, 1858.
4.	Robert Purvis, abolitionist, born, 1S10.
7.	Benjamin Lundy held his first aboli-
tion meeting in Boston, 1S2S.
9.	P. B. S. Pinchback nominated for
governor of Louisiana, 1S72.
10.	Frederick Douglass addressed anti-
slavery convention at Nantucket, 1S41.
11.	Robert G. Ingersoll born, 1S33.
12.	Convention met in Mississippi to
revise constitution, 1S90. 13 14
13.	Anti-abolition riots began in Phila-
delphia, lasting three nights, 1834.
14.	Battle of Deep Bottom, 1864.
16.	Peter Salem died, 1816.
17.	First attempt to unite the A. M. E.
and A. M. E. Zion Churches, 1820.
20.	(?) Twenty African Negroes landed
as slaves at Jamestown, 1619.
21.	Nat. Turner Insurrection in Virginia.
1831.
22.	Benjamin Lundy died, 1S39.
23.	African Methodist Episcopal Church
incorporated, 1796.
24.	Independence of Liberia proclaimed.
1S47.
25.	Plantation slaves revolted in Hayti,
1791.
28.	Act for abolition of slavery in Brit-
ish Colonies passed parliament, 1S33.
29.	Sonthonax decreed liberty of slaves
in San Domingo. 1793.
30.	James G. Birney nominated for
President, 1S43.
31.	General Fremont’s emancipation pro-
clamation, 1S61.
L. M. Hershaw.
198
THE CRISIS
Publishers’ Ghat

The September number of The CRISIS will be a
Woman Suffrage Number. Few subjects are of such
national importance to-day. We shall have contributions
from prominent women who are authorities on this subject.
CITIES WITHIN THE VEIL—We shall begin
soon a series of articles on the various cities of the world
which have a large colored population. They will treat of
the life of these thousands in an interesting way.
BABIES—The October number of The CRISIS will
be Children’s Number. This is the month of school begin-
nings and family reunions. We want pictures of colored
children of eight years of age or less, especially babies. We
shall give three prizes to the three most interesting pictures.
Pictures must reach us not later than September 10th.
THE POINT OF APPEAL—Upon “The Point of
Appeal’* of a magazine rests the effectiveness of its adver-
tising qualities.
When a magazine is a good advertising medium, it
indicates that its “Point of Appeal’’ is so strong that the
readers* attention does not flag until the last advertisement
has been read.
It is this “Point of Appeal’’—distinct, individual, dif-
ferent—which has made The Crisis a result-producing
medium for particular advertisers.
Mr. Advertiser: Let us help you prepare your selling
talks in harmony with this “Point of Appeal.*’ Our sug-
gestions are free.
October, 1910—1,000; October, 1911 —10,000; July,
1912—22,000—a “Point of Appeal*’ for advertisers.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
199
Patterns! Patterns!
Exclusive creations of Madame Becks, one of New York s fashionable
modistes.
On account of their originality, Madame Becks costumes and designs
are in constant, demand by discriminating dressers and dressmakers.
By special arrangement we are publishing Madame Becks patterns ex-
clusively in The Crisis.
Shirt Waist, No. 6213
By mail, 17 cents
No. 6213; Shirtwaist—Material
required, 36 bust: 2j/9 yds, 36 in.
wide; Yl yd. all-over lace for
collar; 1 piece soutache braid.
Patterns cut for sizes 36, 38 and
40.
Skirt, No. .5348
By mail, 17 cents
Shirtwaist Skirt can be made of
serge, linen or taffeta. Material re-
quired: 3 yds.. 40 in. wide, or 4
yds., 36 in. wide for 24 waist.
Patterns, are cut 24, 26, 28 and
30 for waist measure.
Patterns cut to measure, 30c.
Ladies are invited to consult
Madame Becks through this column.
Address:
Pattern Dept., The CRISIS
26 Vesey Street	New York
Mention The Ckisis.
200
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
The Meeting Place of Business and Proficiency
A professional man advertised in The Crisis for a partner with capital. The
profession is one that offers little encouragement to colored men and yet he writes:
‘‘Kindly stop the advertisement in The Crisis, as my want
has been filled. Wo appreciate the very good results (from
The Crisis) and will forward check on the 15th.,>
A large corporation advertised in.The Crisis for a general manager with
capital. The wording of their advertisement eliminated all inquirers save those
with capital and experience. They write:
‘ ‘ We believe that one of the parties is really interested in
our proposition and will close with him in a few days. ”
They “closed’’ with him and have since advertised for other high-grade help.
There is our story in a nutshell.
Those who require high-grade help should use our “Help Wanted’’ columns,
and those who are trained or experienced as high-grade helpers should advertise
their services where they may reach the largest number of possible employers.
HELP WANTED
RELIABLE, LIVE,
RESPONSIBLE MEN
who can sell real estate can MAKE MORE
than $200 PER MONTH acting as
AGENTS for the sale of our-properties in
MUSKOGEE and TAFT, OKLAHOMA.
The real coming country where there arc
opportunities and openings for all. Write
us to-day, giving your age and experience,
and we will offer you a FINE PROPOSI-
TION WHICH WILL MAKE YOU
MONEY. Address
REEVES REALTY CO.
Department C
217 Flynn-Ames Bldg.	Muskogee, Okla.
AGENTS—Represent reliable bouse, 400 per
cent, profit. Selling GORDON’S Photo Pillow
Tops. High grade work. Easy sales. Big money.
Samples and catalogue free.
Luther Gordon Co. 206 N. Fifth Ave., Chicago, III.
AREN’T YOU TIRED OF WORKING AT “so much
per” piling up profits for somebody else? Would
you consider a proposition of going in busines for
yourself without any investment but your time and
talents? I* 80 write and get our proposition.
Young and old can make money with our proposition.
THE NELSON SUPPLY CO., Harrisburg, Pa.
AGENTS make big money selling our Negro pic
tures, size 16 x 20. “Jesus Died for Both,”
Clinging to the Cross,“ “Protecting Angel,"
“Booker T. Washington," "Heavenward," "A
Mother’s Joy," “Inspiration," “Mama, I Love
You," “Jack Johnson." Catalog froo. Peoples
Portrait Co., 710 W. Madison St., Dept. C,
Chicago, IU.
MUTUAL TEACHERS’
AGENCY
Recommends teachers for schools; secures
employment for teachers. Blanks and
information furnished free on application.
1335 T Street, N. W. Washington, D. C.
PATENTS
L. H. LATIMER
MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEER
and
SOLICITOR OF PATENTS
56 John Streot	New York
Inventions Perfected, Models and Experi-
mental Machines Designed and Constructed.
Technical Translations.
Telophono 343 John	Boom 604
MUSIC
HELEN ELISE SMITH
CONCERT PIANIST
Post-Graduate of the Institute of Musical Art
Pupil of Sigismund Stojowsky
Teacher of Piano, Theory, Ear-training, etc.
224 EAST 86TH STREET, NEW YORK CITY
REGALIA
A RACE ENTERPRISE
Manufacturing Badges, Banners and Sup-
plies for all Fraternal and Church Societies.
Catalogue upon request.
CENTRAL REGALIA CO.
Jos. L. Jones, Pres.
N. E. Cor. 8th and Plum Streets
Cincinnati, Ohio	v
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
201
REAL ESTATE
Valuable Texas Lands
For Sale
Large tracts of farm land in the best localities
of the State for sale at very flattering prices.
Small tracts of good lands suitable for farming,
truck, fruits and any domestic product. We have
for sale a number of large farms already in cultiva-
tion. good houses an' barns, wells, and nice pasture
lands, which can be obtained at reasonable rates.
Lity property a specialty. Business lots in the best
part of the city, improved and unimproved. Large
lots suitable for factory property with switch
facilities.
No investment can be more valuable than an in-
vestment in Texas real estate. Lands are becoming
so valuable that they are doubling themselves in
value in less than a year's time. For any invest-
ment in Texas property, write T. B. Madison Real
Estate Company. 2415 Elm Street. Dallas. Texas.
To Colored People
JpOR SALE—We have houses from $1,000 to
$30,000. Our city is the capital of Ohio and
a great manufacturing center—plenty of work, a
good place to locate for business. Can sell you a
house for $50. $100 to $500 down, balance like
rent. For investment and speculating houses or
business places, $1,000 to $5,000 down, balance on
long time payment. Farm land prices from $1,000
to $10,000 up. Any of these are in good locations.
Write for further information.
THIS IS A COLORED ENTERPRISE.
EDWARD A. SHANKLIN
Real Estate
1218^ Mt. Vernon Ave.	Columbus. Ohio
Canada, Province of
British Columbia
WANTED—To hear from one hundred
respectable colored families who desire to
settle in British Columbia, where I have
four hundred acres of rich black loam
garden land, all cleared, that I will sub-
divide into five-acre blocks, build good
comfortable homes of two to ten rooms,
barns, sheds, etc. This property is near
Vancouver, with railway, electric lines and
water transportation conveniently near;
located on the best salmon-fishing stream in
the world; an abundance of game, wild duck,
pheasant, quail, deer, etc. The section around
is well populated and very rich and valuable.
Maps with plans, etc., ready August 15. Be
prepared to make your selection upon receipt
of same, for the number of these blocks is
limited. A very small cash payment will be
required, balance to run five years. For full
particulars, etc., write me at once.
ANDREW J. NAPIER
Real Estate and Insurance
736 Nelson SI., Vancouver, B. C.
UNDERTAKERS
Telephone Columbus 3935	Open All Night
RODNEY DADE Sc BROS.
Undertakers and Embalmers
Notary Public
Funeral Parlor and Chapel Free.
Licensed Lady Embalmer	Prompt Service
266 West 53d Street	New York, N. Y.
Between Broadway and 8th Avenue
SCHOOLS
Learn Algebra or
Shorthand Writing
During your spare time. Complete course; either
one by mail, $14.00; book furnished. $2.00 down
and then $1.00 a month until paid. We can accom-
modate 200 by mail.
PERKINS SEMINARY
320 S. 10th Street	Birmingham, Ala.
INVESTMENTS
Invest Your Money
m M ound Bayou
We are promoting and financing The
People’s Brick Company, one of the
most-needed and best-paying enter-
prises in the town.
OUR REFERENCE: THE
BANK OF MOUND BAYOU.
OR ANY CITIZEN..
YOUR MONEY will earn 7 per
cent, from the time it is invested, and
much more in the very near future.
For complete information address
\The, S. I. E. Corporation
MOUND BAYOU, MISS.
WIGINGTON & BELL
Architects
Karbach Block	Omaha, Neb.
Mention The Crisis.
202
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
THE NATIONAL
ADVANCEMENT
ASSOCIATION FOR THE
OF COLORED PEOPLE
OFFICES: 26 Vesey Street, New York.
Incorporated May 25, 1911
OFFICERS
National President—Mr. Moorfleld Storey, Boston,
Mass.
Vice-Presidents—
Rev. John Haynes Holmes, New York.
Mr. John E. Milhoiland, Now York.
Bishop Alexander Walters, New York.
Rev. Garnet R. Waller, Baltimore, Md.
Miss Mary White Ovington. Brooklyn, N. Y.
Chairman of the Board of Directors—
Mr. Oswald Garrison Villard, New York.
Treasurer—Mr. Walter E. Sachs, New York.
Director of Publicity and Research—
Dr. W. E. B. Du Bois, New York.
Secretary—Miss May Childs Nerney, Brooklyn, N. Y.
Assistant Secretary—Miss Martha Gruening, New
York.
This year we shall attack segregation laws, investigate lynching,
defend the Negro in his civil rights, protest unceasingly against
race discrimination.
We want 2,000 members January 1, 1913. Watch the clock.
MENT OF COLORED PEOPLE.
Please find enclosed	..dollars and enter my name as a member in Class
paying $ ....... a year, and send me THE CRISIS.
Name ..........................................
Address
Class 1. Life Members, paying $500.
Class 2. Donors, paying $100 per year.
Class 3. Sustaining Members, paying $25
per year.
Class 4. Contributing Members, paying $10,
$5 or $2 per year.
Class 5. Associate Members, paying $1 per
year.
The subscription to THE CRISIS is $1 extra, except members	more’ Wh°
signify their wish that $1 of their dues be considere	voting at the Annual
All members in good standing have the privilege of attending and voting ar
Conference of the Association.
PLEASE MAKE CHECKS PAYABLE TO NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT
OF COLORED PEOPLE, 26 VESEY STREET, NEW YORK CITY.
Mention The Cimsis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER	203
GOOD COMMISSION PAID TO ORGANIZERS. JOIN NOW!		Too, Too !	Too. Too !	Too, Too i
		SOMETHING NEW
		The Alro-American
		Order ol Orioles
U14P HOME OFFICE: llO^ Colfax Ave., South Bend, Ind.		^\^ith a Graduated Scale of Endowment
		For particulars write G. W. BLAND, H. S. P.
SCHOOL OF BEAUTY CULTURE AND HAIR DRESSING
KELSEY’S
328 Lenox Avenue
Telephone Harlem 1896
126th Street, NEW YORK.
Manicuring. Shampooing. Hair Dressing, Marcel Wav-
ing, Facial and Body Massage. Hair Making. Chiropody,
etc., scientifically taught. Unlimited practice in parlor
day and night. Pupils ’taught at home, if desired.
Diplomas. Special Summer Course. S7.50 up. Send for
booklet. Mme. A. Carter Kelsey, Gen’l Intr.; Dr. Samuel
A. Kelsey. Chiropodist. President and Gen’l Manager.
$65.00
A value unequaled. Sold on
$1.00 Profit Margin. Write
for prices and other styles.
Send for catalog.
C. R. Patterson & Sons
GREENFIELD, OHIO
Largest Negro carriage concern In the United States
BEAUTIFUL ART EXHIBIT
Miss Cora Van Schoick is conducting a sale and
exhibit of unusual interest at the WHITE ROSE
MISSION, 217 East 86th Street, New York.
There is on sale hand-painted china and pillow
tops, hand-made opera bags, pin cushions and
novelties. These hand creations are suggestive for
gifts and interior decorations.
Telephone 3253 Harlem
CARPET CLEANING
Cleaners and Renovators
For Particular People
New York Careful Cleaning Bureau
12 West 135th Street
We make a specialty of cleaning and renovating
carpets, rugs, portieres and upholstered furniture:
we also vacuum clean in the home. We are not
the largest carpet cleaner in the warld, but abso-
lutely the most careful in every detail.
SHAMPOOING CARPETS AND RUGS OUR
SPECIALTY
DID YOU SEE
THE BECKS PATTERNS
ON PAGE 199?
’Phone 2377 Lenox
White Rose Working Girls* Home
217 East S6th Street
Bet. Second and Third Avenues
Pleasant temporary lodgings for working girls,
with privileges, at reasonable rates. The Home
solicits orders for working dresses, aprons, etc.
Address:
MRS. FRANCES R. KEYSER. Supt.
Mention The Crisis.
204
THE CRISIS
ADVERTISER
PERSONAL CARDS
Ten Years with Dr. D. 0. White
Telephone 71S9 Morningside
DR. JAMES A. BANKS
DENTIST
204 WEST 133d STREET, NEW YORK
Porcelain, Crown and Bridge Work a Specialty
Pure Nitrous-Oxide Gas Administered
J.	DOUGLAS WETMORE
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
5 Beekruan Street (Temple Court)
New York City
Tel. 6222 Cortlandt	Cable Address, Judowet
FREDERICK L. McGHEE
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Union Block, Fourth and Cedar Streets
St. Paul, Minn.
General Practice	Notary Public
WILLIAM R. MORRIS
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
1020 Metropolitan Life Building
Minneapolis, Minn.
Real Estate and Probate Matters a Specialty
ROBERT B. BARCUS
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Notary Public
Office: Room 502, Eberly Block,	Columbus, O.
B. S. SMITH
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Offices: Suite -610, Sykes Block.
Minneapolis, Minn.
GEORGE W. MITCHELL
Attomcy-at-Law
908 Walnut Street
Philadelphia, Pa.
Tel. 2026 Fort Hill	Cable Address, EpbeD
EDGAR P. BENJAMIN
Attorney and Counsellor-at-Law
34 8CHOOL STREET	Boston, Mass * 21
Telephone Connection
W. ABhbie Hawkins	George W. F: McMechen
HAWKINS & McMECHEN
Attorneys-at-Law
21 East Saratoga Street	Baltimore, Md
PA M P H LETS
Published and sold by
The National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People
1.	African Civilization: By M. D. Mac-
lean. Price 2 cents.
2.	The Brain of the American Negro:
By Burt G. Wilder. Price 20 cents.
3.	Social Control: By Jane Addams, of
Hull House. Price 1 cent.
4.	The Negro as a Soldier: By Briga-
dier-General Burt, U. S. A. Price 5 cents.
5.	Leaving It to the South: An experi-
ence and some conclusions by Charles
Edward Russell. Price 5 cents.
6.	Views of a Southern Woman:	By
Adelene Moffat. Price 2 cents.
7.	Disfranchisement: By John Haynes
Holmes. Price 5 cents.
8.	Contribution of the Negro to Human
Civilization:	By Dr. A. F. Chamberlain.
Price 15 cents.
9.	The Relation of the Negroes to the
Whites in the Scuth: By \V. E. B. Du Bois.
Price 15 cents.
Address
The Crisis Book Department
26 VESEY STREET	NEW YORK
BOOKS
The Curse of Race Prejudice
James F. Morton, Jr., A.M., Author and Publisher.
Forceful, rationul, comprehensive. An arsenal
of facts and unanswerable arguments. Invaluable
for propaganda. Rend the chapter on “The Bug
bear of Sociul Equality," which is a veritable eye-
opener. Thousands already sold. Agents wanted
everywhere.
PRICE 25 CENTS
Address the Author at 244 West 143d Street,
New York, N. Y.
The Power of Womanhood
A Speech by Joseph Wellington
PRICE 20 CENTS
Sold by
THE STANDARD NEWS COMPANY
131 West 53d Street, New York
AGENTS WANTED EVERYWHERE
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
205
YOUR LOCAL PRINTER
may be able to do your ordinary printing, but your business and
personal stationery, wedding invitations, calling cards, pamphlets, etc.,
require that particular attention which our experience and facilities
afford you.
As first-class printers in New York City, we are subject to the
most exacting demands, since new designs and type formations must be
constantly originated to satisfy a large clientele of most discriminating
patrons.
We refer you to Mr. Conde Nast, of Vogue; rve print The CRISIS.
Write for samples and special quotations.
ROBERT N. WOOD, Printing and Engraving
202 EAST 99th STREET	NEW YORK
'Phone 6667 Lenox
Make Your Spare Moments
Profitable 033300?
^ The continued growth of The CRISIS necessitates the extension of
our field force, and we need representatives in all cities to establish
sub-agencies and look after renewals.
fj If you can spare a few hours each month to look after our interests
in your city, we can make you a proposition that will interest you. The
work is dignified as well as profitable.
—	--- ADDRESS BUSINESS MANAGER	=
THE CRISIS, 26 Vesey Street, NEW YORK
Mention The Ckisis.
206
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
HALF A MAN
The Status of the Negro in New York
By
MARY WHITE OVINGTON
With a foreword by Dr. Franz Boas of Columbia University
Chapter I. How the colored people won their civil and political rights.
Chapters II. and III. The Negro tenement and the life of the poor.
Chapters IV. and V. How the colored man earns his living, with a full descrip-
tion of the professions; the ministry, the stage.
Chapter VI. The colored woman, her discouragements and successes.
Chapter VII. A vivid description of the life of the well-to-do Negroes.
Chapter VIII. The Negro in politics in New York.
Chapter IX. The author's personal views on the race question.
Price $1.00; by mail, $1.12.
LONGMANS, GREEN & CO., Publishers, NEW YORK
This book is for sale in the Book Department of The Crisis, 26 Vesey St., N. Y.
PLAY BALL, BOYS!
Last half of the ninth; bases full; score tied and “Casey” at the bat.
Get in the game, boys. Organize a baseball team in your city.
Baseball is the most popular sport in this country. In every hamlet, town
and city may be seen the future “Rube Fosters” and “William Matthews” romping
over corner lots, batting, pitching and learning to play the game.
Organize your team and get our great baseball outfit for a few hours’ work.
Our outfit includes
10 Spalding baseball suits with name of club (any color).
10 caps to match.
10 pairs baseball stockings.
1 catcher’s mit.
1 first baseman’s glove.
3 infielders’ gloves.
3 outfielders’ gloves.
--	‘.zrOR INFORMATION WRITE THE
Business Manager of THE CRISIS
26 VESEY STREET	NEW YORK
Mention The Crisis.
Greater Speed—Greater Accuracy—Greater
Efficiency—are the logical results of installing the
UNDERWOOD
TYPEWRITER
Cf Exclusive Underwood features make
possible the most important labor-saving
systems of modern accounting.
CJ The ever growing demand puts the
annual sales of Underwoods far ahead
of those of any other machine—making
necessary the largest typewriter factory
and the largest typewriter office build-
ing in the world.
CJ Such a demand from business men everywhere is unquestionable
evidence of the practical mechanical superiority of
“THE MACHINE YOU WILL
EVENTUALLY BUY”
Branch Offices in All Principal Cities
UNDERWOOD TYPEWRITER CO., inc.
Underwood Building	NEW YORK
Mention The Crisis.
This magnificent hotel, repleto with every modern improvement, claims distinction for its location;
direct Southern exposure. Superlative in construction, appointments, service and refined patronage.
Endorsed by leading representative citizens.	.
Concerts daily by the Abyssinia orchestra. Garage, bathhouses, tonnis, etc., on premises, special
attention given to ladies and children. Literature and information mailed upon request.
E.	W. DALE, Cape May, N. J„ Owner and Proprietor_^^__^^_M
The TESTING FIRE
By ALEXANDER CORKEY
Author of “The Victory of Allan Rutledge"
Is the Sanest Story Ever Written on the Race Problem
It is the first story ever written on the race
question, by a white man, that is not antagonistic
to the colored race.
EVERY FREEDMAN SHOULD READ IT
Through its pages runs a sweet romance, but
it is more than a love story. It is a novel of
uplift, accomplishment and promise.
No One Interested in the Race Question Should Miss It
Price $1.25 Net; Postage 10 Cents Extra
H. K. FLY COMPANY, PullLWs
NEW YORK CITY
This book is for sale in the Book Department of THE CRISIS,
26 Vesey Street, New York
Mention The Crisis.
R.E C O R,D OF THE DARKER. RACES
Volume Four
SEPTEMBER, 1912
Number Five
Womans Suffrage N^umter
ONE DOLLAR A YEAR
TEN CENTS A COPY
Our Heroes of Destiny
Honorables Frederick Douglass, John M. Langston, Blanche K. Bruce, Paul Laui
Dunbar and Booker T. Washington
This illust
ration
‘OUR
otcctcd bcopyright. An
zti.i be prosecuted
HF.ROF.S OF DESTINY*
:t r-.ngemen:
I de-sire to thank the readers
of THE C'RISIi and my large
number of friends for their
very enthusiast.-.- atipport and
appreciation >1 the Special
Edition of “OUB HEROES OF
DESTINY.”
POPULAR EDITION
While the orders for the
Special Edition have been must
gratifying. there has been a
constant demand for a cheaper
one.
In response to those numer-
ous requests I am glad to an-
nounce that a Popular Edition
is on the press. In producing
this Edition there is neither a
sacrifice of quality nor work-
manship. as I was fortunate in
securing a specially processed
paper, which will defy even the
eyes of an expert in distinguish-
ing it from the Special Edition.
The price of the Populcr
Edition fifty cents, postpaid.
iJ2/*The Special Edition, which Is oa
JAPAN VELLUM. will. by no
mear.- be •U-otiilnued. ar.d those
of tb* particular	who ded.e
m \?	-- one fomrded to them tor
One Dollar, postpaid.
INDIVIDUAL PORTRAITS
The Individual Portraits are
beautiful gravures, 11 by 14
inches, hnndsomelv mounted
and ready for framing. Price,
fifty cents.
A partinl list of those now
ready includes:
Frederick Douglass
Booker T. Washington
Mrs. Booker T. Washington
Blanche K. Bruce
John M. Langston
W. E. B. Du Bois
Paul Laurence Dunbar
Rev. C. T. Walker
Judson W. Lyons
T. Thomas Fortune
TESTIMONIALS
v-. ivanso:
“Your splendid production of ‘Our He-
of Destiny’ marks _ the era of perpetual
characteristic and faithiul likenesses of
famous rr.er. and women of our own race,
be handed down to younger generations, ins
mg them. with ideals which if ca-efu’.ly nurtu
in their young lives will in their mature a
prove excellent examples of pure and digni
manhood ar.d womanhood.
“No home where there is a child should
without a copy of this excellent work, and
parent that feels the love and loyalty of hig
race development should fail to teach
chi.drer. of their homes the meaning of the
• ives ot these five men.”
Mrs. E. K. Bruce, Washington, D. C., says:
“I am indeed a lad to say that ‘Our Heroes
of Destiny’ is the most creditable work of
art that has yet been produced of and for our
people. The’ life likeness of the entire group
is exceedingly good. It is a fitting memorial
Worthy to be in every home.
“If we are to perpetuate the memories of
our own great men, it must be by keeping
their portraits ever before our youth, ana
familiarizing them with the true meaning of
their lives.”
\v
"V**? llcre V a ProP°5nion that will net you a substantial monthly inconn
wnethcr you devote all or spare time to it. Mv extensive advertising; creat
in?,a 'itm*nd ior these pictures, injures quick sales, ar.d their superior qualit
Uia'fc\eaChTpl,rch^<;r a sal*s^ie<J customer. YOU would be interested t
now o\\ 1 train mv agents by correspondence and make them successit
salesmen. \\ rite ior particulars.
d W R A rrTATn ^V	ARTIST AND PUBLISH FJ
UrV 1 1 JU I ,	322 Mott Avenue	New York Cit
Mtntion The Ckisis.
THE CRISIS
A RECORD OF THE DARKER RACES
Published by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, at
26 Vesey Street, New York City.
W. B. BURGHARDT DU BOIS. Editor
FRANK M. TURNER. Circulation Manager
ALBON L. HOLSEY, Advertising Manager
( OSWALD GARRISON VILLARD
Contributing ) CHARLES EDWARD RUSSELL
Editor. ) W. S. BRA IT H WAITE
( KELLY MILLER
Subscription: $1.00 a year; 50 cents for six months. Foreign subscriptions. 25 cents extra. Subscription#
to begin with current issue or changes of address must reach us before the 15th of the previous month.
CONTENTS FOR SEPTEMBER
PACE
ALONG THE COLOR LINE........................... 215
MEN OF THE MONTH............................... 223
OPINION ....................................... 225
EDITORIAL ...................................  '234
I
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE................................. 237
HISTORIC DAYS IN SEPTEMBER. By L. M. Hershaw... 239
A SUFFRAGE SYMPOSIUM. By Fanny Garrison Villard, Adtilla Hunt
Logan, Mary Church Terrell, Martha Gruening and Rosalie Jonas. 240
THE BURDEN .................................... 248
WHAT TO READ................................... 249
LETTER BOX .................................... 250
Agents wanted who can furnish references. Entered as second-class matter in the P. 0. at N. Y. City
212
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
Atlanta University
Is beautifully located In the City of Atlanta, Ga.
The courses of study include High School, Nor-
mal School and College, with manual training
and domestic science. Among the teachers aro
graduates of Yale, Harvard, Dartmouth, Smith
and Wellesley. Forty-one years of successful
work havo been completed. Students come from
all parts of the South. Graduates are almost
universally successful.
For further information address
President EDWARD T. WARE
ATLANTA, GA.
Knoxville CoMege
Beautiful Situation, Healthful Location
The Best Moral and Spiritual Environment
A Splendid Intellectual Atmosphere
Noted for Honest and Thorough Work
Often full courses in the following departments:
College, Normal, High School, Grammar School and
Industrial.
Good water, steam heat, electric lights, good
drainage. Expanses very reasonable.
Opportunity for Self-help.
Fall Term Begins September, 1912.
For information address
President R. W. McGRANAHAN
KNOXVILLE, TENN.
Uirginia Union University
RICHMOND, VA.
A College Department, of high standards and
modern curriculum.
A Theological Department, with all subjects
generally required in the best theological seminaries.
An Academy, with manual training, giving a
preparation for life or for college.
The positive moral and religious aim of the
school, its high, standards of entrance and of class
work, its fine new buildings and well-equipped
laboratories and library prepare a faithful Btudent
for a life of wide usefulness.
GEORGE RICE HOVEY, President
Fisk University
NASHVILLE, TENN.
The largest colored college in the South.
A new department of sociology and social
service. A notable equipment in land and
buildings. Endorsed by the General Edu-
cation Board. For information address
GEORGE A. GATES, President
FORWARD
MARCH YOUR SON OFF TO
Wilberforce University
The only school in the country for Negro
Youth which has a Military Department
equipped by the Nutional Government, and
commanded by a detailed United States Army
Officer.
DEPARTMENTS
MILITARY	SCIENTIFIC
NORMAL	TECHNICAL
COMMERCIAL THEOLOGICAL
CLASSICAL	MUSICAL
PREPARATORY
Banking taught by the actual operations
in the Students' Savings Bank. Twelve In-
dustries, 180 acres of beautiful campus, Ten
Buildings. Healthful surroundings, excep-
tional community. Maintained in part by the
State of Ohio which supplies facilities for the
thorough training of teachers.
Fall term begins September, 1912. Write
for Catalog.
W. S. SCARBOROUGH, President
WM. A. JOINER. Superintendent, C. N. I.
Department.
Address all communications to
BOX 36	WILBERFORCE, OHIO
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
213
Avery College Training Scliools
NORTH SIDE, PITTSBURGH, PA.
A superior training school for young colored women, thoroughly instructing
its students as a means of self-support in dressmaking, cutting and drafting, domestic
science, music, nurse training, millinery, and an intermediate English course. This
institution is under the influence of no religious denomination, is the oldest endowed
chartered Negro institution in America. The accommodations in its dormitory,
which is in charge of a competent matron, are excelled by no colored institution
in this country.
The hospital department offers the same course as the large hospitals of the
State of Pennsylvania, fully equipped with its operating rooms, diet kitchen and
ambulance service. The course requires three years lectures on general nursing,
anatomy, ethics, surgery, obstetrics, asepsis, antiseptics, gynecology, pediatrics, eye,
nose, throat, materia medica, therapeutics and dietetics under a staff of white and
colored physicians. Catalogues now ready.
Address all communications to
JOSEPH D. MAHONEY, Secretary
Box 154	North Side, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Daytona Educational and Industrial
School for Negro Girls
Daytona, Florida
It reaches, by reason of its location, a
large territory of Negro children deprived
of educational privileges.
Its comfortable home life and Christian
influences insure a certain individual atten-
tion and superior training impossible in
larger institutions of its kind.
Mrs. Frances R. Keyser, formerly in
charge of the White Rose Home for Work-
ing Girls, in New York City, has been
elected Principal of the Academic Depart-
ment. Write for catalog and detailed
information.
MARY McLEOD BETHUNE
Founder and Principal
Learn Algebra or
Shorthand Writing
During your spnre time. Complete course: either
one by mail, $11.00; book furnished. $2.00 down
and then $1.00 a month until paid. We can accom-
modate 200 by mail.
PERKINS SEMINARY
320 S. 10th Street	Birmingham, Ala.
SEE
MME. BECKS’ PATTERNS
ON PAGE 253
Ag ricultural and
Meek anica 1 Collqge
Open all the year round. For
males only. Strong, practical and
theoretical courses leading to
degree of Bachelor of Science in
Agriculture, and Bachelor of
Science in Mechanics. Board,
lodging and tuition, $7.00 per
month. Write to-day for catalog
or for further information.
JAS. B. DUDLEY, President
GREENSBORO. N. C.
Mention The Crisis.
214
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
OF INTEREST TO
VOCAL STUDENTS
Tone Placing and
Voice Development
Practical method of tinging for
daily practice, based upon artistic
principles, together with a care-
fully prepared number of exercises,
forming a comprehensive, progres-
sive and self-explained course in
voice building, which constitute the
technical side of the vocal art.
Comment from the world-renowned conductor of
the Paulist Choir of Chicago, III., whose choir has
jus; received the first prize awarded at the Sing-
ing Contest held in Paris on May 25, 1912:
“Dear Mr. Tinsley:
“I take great pleasure in commending your
very useful and succinctly written book on ‘Tone-
Placing and Voice-Deveiopment.’ Your own appre-
ciation of the psychology of singing and the funda-
mental principles of the art you have cleverly re-
duced to a simple system.
“Cordially yours,
“Father WILLIAM J. FINN'. C. 3. P..
“Director Paulist Choristers of Chicago.”
Price $1. Address the publisher:
PEDRO T. TINSLEY
6448 Drexcl Avenue CHICAGO, ELL-
or Clayton F. Summy, 64-66 E. Van Buren St.
(Steinway Hall Bldg.), and Lyon & Healy, Adams
and Wabash Sts., Chicago, 111.
“A noteworthy book of the epoch.”
Ttie Semis ©f
Black Folk
By W. E. BURGHAEDT DU BOIS
Eighth Edition
“It is one of the noteworthy books,
not merely of a year, but of the epoch.
Its every page is filled with vigor, spon-
taneity and spirituality. ’ * — Boston
Transcript.
“A stripping bare of the moral and
mental anatomy of the African in Amer-
ica so as to reveal the naked soul in its
primitive simplicity, seared and scarred
by ages of suffering.—Xew York Age.
With Author's Portrait, $1.20 Net
At book stores or from the publishers
A. C. McCLURG & CO.
CHICAGO
The NEGRO AND THE
ELECTIVE FRANCHISE
No. 11. Occasional Papers
AMERICAN NEGRO ACADEMY
An Opinion Worth While.
‘T find more patriotism and statesmanship
in this pamphlet by colored men than in
all the contributions made on the subject
by white men since the Civil War.”
A. E. PlLLSBURY.
Inclose 35 cents to
J. W. CROMWELL
1439 Swann Street, N. W. Washington. D. C.
PUBLICATIONS
A. M. E. Book Concern Philadelphia, Pa.
THE POEMS OP PHILLIS WHEATLEY.
Reprint of lirst edition 1773; a valuable book.
Price. $1.00.
THE NEGRO PROBLEM. An analysis: What
It Is Not and What It Is; by R- R- Wright, Jr.
In pamphlet form, 15 cents.
THE COLORED REGULARS. By T. G. Steward,
Chaplain U. S. A., retired. Price, $1.50.
EVOLUTION AND LTTE. By Algernon B. Jack-
son, Surgeon-in-chief Mercy Hospital. Price, 75
cents.
THE NEGRO IN PENNSYLVANIA. A Study in
Economic History. By R. R. Wright, Jr., Sometime
Research Fellow in Sociology in the University of
Pennsylvania. Price, Paper, $2.00; Cloth, $2.50.
Address
A. M. E. BOOK CONCERN
631 Pine Street.	Philadelphia, Pa.
Atlanta University
Studies of the
Negro Problems
15 Monographs. Sold Separately.
Address:
A. G. DILL
Atlanta University, Atlanta, Ga.
The Curse of Race Prejudice
By James F. Morton, Jr., A. M.
An aggressive exposure by an Anglo-Saxon
champion of equal rights. Startling facts and crush-
ing arguments. Fascinating reading. A necessity
for clear understanding and up-to-date propaganda.
Belongs in the library of every friend of social
justice. Price 25 cents. Send orders to
JAMES F. MORTON, JR.
244 West 143d Street	New York, N. Y.
The Power of Womanhood
A Speech by Joseph Wellington
PRICE 20 CENTS
Sold by
THE STANDARD NEWS COMPANY
131 West 53d Street, New York
AGENTS WANTED EVERYWHERE
Mention The Crisis.
Volume Four
THE CRISIS
SEPTEMBER. 1912
ALONG
COLOR
WOMAN’S SUFFRAGE.
A MOXG the most active workers for suf-
frage in New York City is Dr. Yerina
Morton-Jones. Dr. Jones is president of
the Brooklyn Equal- Suffrage League of the
Kings Couuty Suffrage Association, the
organization for which Mrs. Garnett worked
so faithfully until her death. The league
was the banner club in the State fair of
1911.
<3 In Boston Mrs. Josephine Ruffin has given
many years to active service in the suffrage
movement. Miss A. L. T. Waytes of that
city tours the country in the interests of
votes for women. This campaign she has
been speaking in Wisconsin and Ohio.
<3 Much work is being done for suffrage by
the colored women of Ohio. Mrs. Hallie
Q.	Brown of Wilberforce has given many
years of devoted service to “votes for
women," and Mrs. Blanche A. Gilmere of
Cleveland is an ardent advocate and is work-
ing diligently in the present State campaign.
<2 The State secretary in Wisconsin writes
that “Miss Carrie Horton is president
of the Colored Suffrage League of Mil-
waukee, and when she returns from her
vacation we believe she will take up the
suffrage work with enthusiasm. We hope
to poll the entire colored vote of Mil-
waukee."
<3 The Equal Suffrage League of Indiana
has seven branches in Indianapolis, one being
the colored branch. This was organized in
July, 1912, and has as its president Miss
Carrie Barnes, a young woman reared in that
most progressive State, Colorado. It has
forty members—thirty women and ten men.
All are active workers. Once a month it
meets with other branches to go over matters
of general importance. “Our meetings," the
president writes, “are well attended, and both
the men and the women are enthusiastic.
We all feel that colored women have need
for the ballot that white women have, and
a great many needs that they have not.”
<3 On the resolutions committee at the
National Association of Colored Women at
Hampton was an Alabama woman who is a
life member of the National Woman's Suf-
frage Association. She is active in the
present campaign for the enfranchisement of
women in Ohio, and has exercised the tax-
payers’ suffrage in Louisiana.
POLITICAL.
MR. ANDREW B. HUMPHREY- esti-
mates the effective Negro vote in the
next presidential election to be 600,000,
divided as follows:
Massachusetts 20,000
Rhode Island.. 3,500
Connecticut ... 6,000
New York.......50.000
New Jersey. .. .30.000
Pennsylvania .70.000
Maryland ... .65,000
Delaware ....10,000
W. Virginia... 24,000
Kentucky ... .75,000
Missouri ......30,000
Ohio ..........45,000
Indiana .......25,000
Illinois ......50,000
Michigan .... 7.000
Iowa .......... 7,000
Kansas ........20,000
Nebraska .... 4.000
Oklahoma . .. .40.000
Colorado.......5,000
California ....10,000
Washington . . 3,500
216
THE CRISIS
<1 At the convention of the Progressive
party Negroes from the South were
denied seats. In Mississippi the delegates
had been elected in a convention which was
confined to white men. In most of the other
Southern States Negroes were excluded. In
the case of Florida both the white and col-
ored delegations were excluded. South
Carolina was not represented because only
colored men offered to organize the party.
A plank was laid before the convention
affirming the right of the Negro to take part
in government. This, after long debate, the
platform committee refused to adopt. A
few colored delegates sat for the Northern
States and made a hard fight for justice.
Three directors of the National Association
for the Advancement of Colored People,
Mr. J. E. S pin gar n, Mr. Henry Moskowitz
and Miss Jane Addams, worked strenuously,
but without avail, to change the attitude of
the convention.
<1 In the September election Ohio will vote
on two proposals touching the colored peo-
ple. Proposal number 23 is to enfranchise
women and to strike from the constitution
the prohibition against voting by other per-
sons than white .men. Proposal number 24
does not enfranchise women, but does drop
the word “white.”
<1 The question of Negroes voting in South-
ern ‘Svhite” primaries continually comes to
the fore. In Virginia the new Byrd law
apparently does not exclude the colored peo-
ple from primary elections. In Texas the
State attorney-general has handed down an
opinion that Negroes may be prohibited
from voting in such elections.
<1 A determined effort was made by colored
officeholders to have Dr. U. G. Mason of
Birmingham appointed as internal revenue
collector in Alabama in the place of Col.
Thompson, a white man, who has just been
displaced. The attempt was, however, un-
successful. Sim. T. Wright, a white man,
was appointed by President Taft.
^ Mr. T. B. McAllister has been reappointed
receiver of public moneys at Jackson, Miss.
He has held this post for eight years and
is the only important Negro federal office-
holder in the State. Mr. Charles Banks, with
the endorsement of Mr. Booker T. Washing-
ton, was a prominent candidate for the
position. As Mr. Taft did not appoint
Mr. Banks, this is said to have had much to
do with Air. Banks’ advocacy of Roosevelt
in the Republican convention.
•I Several delegations of colored men have
waited on Governor Wilson, the Democratic
nominee for President. The first delegation
reports the result of their interview as fol-
low's: “Mr. Wilson assured us, first of all, -
that if elected he intended to be a President
of the whole nation—to know no white or
black, no North, South, East or West, and
no home-born or foreign-born, but that he
would treat every citizen according to the
law—not only the letter, but according to
the spirit of Ihe law—and that he would
discharge his obligations, his duties of office,
in the spirit of Christ, and with justice and
fairness to all. In the second place, even
if the President and both houses of Congress
should be Democratic, he did not believe that
any measures inimical to colored people
would be passed. He said that it was the
understanding with the party leaders that
this should be the case, but if by any acci-
dent such a measure or measures should be
passed he would veto them. In the third
place, he gave us to understand that so far
as patronage was concerned he could assure
us that the colored people would fare as
ALONG THE
COLOR LINE
217
well under his administration as President as
they had fared under Republican administra-
tions. In the fourth place, he promised as
soon after his formal notification as possi-
ble he would get out a statement over his
own name to the entire country refuting the
falsehoods which are being so indiscrimi-
nately circulated against him by most of the
colored newspapers and by many of the
white papers and magazines of the country
relative to his enmity to and hatred of the
colored man. We called the governor’s at-
tention to the fact that it had already been
repeatedly stated that if he became President
he would use his power to spread
‘Jim Crow’ and disfranchisement acts
against the colored mau and to abolish the
Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments.
He said that these were false state-
ments; that he had no intention of doing
any such thing and would frown upon the
efforts of any who undertook to promote
such acts. In short, he expressed himself as
feeling the need of and desiring the colored
vote and stated that he was willing to do
anything that was right and legal to secure
that vote, and that if elected President of
the United States the colored people would
have no occasion to regret having voted for
him.”
<3 A second delegation of colored men which
has waited on Mr. Wilson enlisted his sym-
pathy and aid for the passage of the
emancipation celebration bill now before the
House of Representatives.
*3 In South Carolina an astonishing political
fight is going on between the white aristo-
crats, led by Jones, and the poor whites, led
by Governor Blease. Both agree in malign-
ing the Negro.
SOCIAL UPLIFT.
'T’HE colored people of Pennsylvania and
A New Jersey are busy arranging for the
exposition which they are to hold next year
aided by State appropriations. Other cele-
brations are being planned in Spokane,
Wash., the District of Columbia aud else-
where.
<3 It is reported that there are 4,113 colored
men in the navy receiving a total yearly
salary of $2,168,000.
<3 The new colored Y. M. C. A. in Washing-
ton, D. C., is now in full working order.
The secretary is Louis E. Johnson.
<3 Helen Collins left in her will recently
$10,000 to the Tuskegee Institute, a part of
her residual estate to the Snow Hill Insti-
tute, $5,000 to the New York Colored Mis-
sion and $1,000 to the Lincoln Hospital.
<3 A civil-service examination for the $1,200
position of organizer of the Emancipation
Proclamation Commission of New Jersey has
been held. Fourteen persons passed the
test, and among these A. L. Locke, formerly
a Rhodes scholar, Solomon P. Hood and
E.	R. Hayne stood highest.
*3 The colored Pekin Theatre of Chicago
has, on account of the death of its proprie-
tor, passed into the hands of white people.
<3 Mingo Saunders, one of the dismissed
men of the Brownsville battalion, has been
given a civil-service position, and it is said
that legislation will be attempted to restore
him and his fellows to the army.
Q The cornerstone of the new colored
Y. M. C. A. in Chicago has been laid. The
cost will be $1S0,000.
*3 A large colonization scheme involving
4,700 acres has been starred by the Liberian
Land Company in the State of Washington.
ECONOMICS.
THE Metropolitan Realty Investment
Company of Ocala, Fla., have just
bought $1S,000 worth of property in that
city.
<3 In Georgia a bill is before the legislature
providing certain qualifications for locomo-
tive firemen which is framed to discriminate
against Negro firemen.
<3 It is said that the Pullman porters are not
provided for in the employers’ liability and
workmen’s compensation act now before
Congress.
<3 Large farmers’ conferences have been held
at Lawrenceville, Va.. at Harrisburg, Pa.,
and at Prairie View, Tex.
<3 L. B. Jeffries, a colored man, has been
awarded the contract for erecting a four-
room primary school at Greensboro, N. C.
Many of the contractors refused to submit
plans because Negroes were allowed to
compete.
<3 There are twelve cities in the United
States with more than 40,000 colored people,
according to the census of 1910; the figures
218
THE CRISIS
follow, together with the percentage of col-
ored to total population:
Washington, D. C
Xew York, X. Y. .
Xew Orleans, La.
Baltimore. Md...
Philadelphia. Pa. .
Memphis, Tenn...
Birmingham. Ala. .
Atlanta, Ga........
Richmond, Ya-------
Chicago. Ill.......
St. Louis, Mo. .. .
Louisville, Ky....
94,446,	or	28.5%
91,709.	or	1-9%
S9/>62,	or	26.3%
S4,149,	or	15.2%
84,459,	or	5.5%
52.441,	or	40.0%
52,305.	or	39.4%
	or	33.5%
46,733,	or	36.6%
44,103.	or	2.0%
43.960,	or	6.4%
40,522,	or	1S.1%
*1 The 91.709 Xegroes in Xew York City are
divided as follows:
Manhattan Borough ................60,53-1
Bronx Borough ..................... 4,117
Brooklyn Boi ugh' .................22,708
Queens Borough .................... 3,19S
Richmond Borough .................. 1,152
<3 There are twenty-seven cities in the United
States which had. in 1910. between 10.000
and 40,000 colored inhabitants:
Xashville, Tenn. . . ..................36,523
Savannah. Ga.........................  33,246
Charleston, S. C.......................31,058
Jacksonville, Fla......................29,293
Pittsburgh, Pa........................ 25,623
Xorfolk, Ya............................25,039
Houston. Tex...........................23,925
Kansas City, Mo........................23,566
Mobile, Ala............................22,763
Indianapolis, Ind......................21.816
Cincinnati, O..........................19,623
Montgomery, Ala........................19,322
Augusta, Ga............................18,344
Macon. Ga..............................18.150
Dallas, Tex............................18.024
Chattanooga, Tenn......................17.924
Little Rock, Ark.......................14,539
Shreveport. La.........................13,896
Boston. Mass...........................13.564
Fort Worth, Tex.......................1.3.280
Columbus, O............................12,739
Wilmington. X. C.......................12.107
Charlotte, X. C........................11,752
Portsmouth. Va.......................11,617
Columbia. S. C.......................11.546
Lexington, Ky........................11.011
San Antonio, Tex.....................10.716
Negro population 10 years of age and over, 1910.
Division and State	Number Per
Continental United Total of Illiterate. Cent.
^ States .............7,318,502 2,228,087 30.4
Southern Divisions:
South Atlantic. . .2,986,936	969,432 32.5
East So. Central. 1,960,698 681,507 34.S
West So. Central. 1,460,705 483,022 33 1
The figures for specific Southern States
are as follows:
Delaware ............
Maryland ............
District of Columbia
Virginia ............
West Virginia........
Xorth Carolina.......
South Carolina ......
Georgia..............
Florida .............
Kentucky ............
Tennessee............
Alabama .............
Mississippi .........
Arkansas ............
Louisiana ...........
Oklahoma ............
Texas ...............
Number	Per
of Illiterate.	Cent.
6,345	25.6
. .. 42.2S9	23.4
	13.5
. . .148,950	30.0
. .. 10.347	20.3
	31.9
. . .226.242	38.7
. . .308,639	36.5
	25.5
	27.6
. . . 98,541	27.3
...265,628	40.1
...259,438	35.6
. . . 86,398	26.4
. . .254,148	48.4
	17.7
. . .124,618	24.6
<1 Andrew Carnegie has sent $8,000 in part
payment of his pledge of funds to build
a new girls’ dormitory at Wilberforce
University.
Lieut. John E. Green, of the United States
Twenty-fifth Infantry, will be at the head of
the military department at Wilberforce
University for another year.
<1 George F. P. Cook, for thirty-six years
superintendent of the colored schools of the
District of Columbia, is dead.
<] Thor? are in the United States 5,516,693
illiterate persons ten years of age and over,
of which less than one-half are colored.
*1 Georgia has established agricultural
schools for white youths in every county in
the State. A bill has now been introduced
to establish one such State school for colored
® Xegroes constitute more than half the-
population of Charleston, Savannah. Jack-
sonville and Montgomery; and one-fourth or
more of the population of twenty-seven
principal cities.
EDUCATION.
rT7HE illiteracy statistics as issued by the
^ tenth census give the following figures
for the whole of the United States and for
the South:
people.
The Mississippi Association of Teachers in
Colored Schools, which held its sixth annual
session lately, reported the case of a city
in Mississippi where the principal of the
white school receives $20 per month more for
his services than all the teachers in the col-
ored school combined, and where the Negro
children are compelled to use for their edu-
cational home the condemned schoolhouse
given up by the whites! In this county a
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
219
former superintendent advertised as very
^ood reasons for bis re-election the fact that
he had decreased Negro salaries to a mini-
mum. had increased white salaries to a
maximum, and that during his term of ofiiee
nor a single Negro school had been erected.
5 ^*ie colored people of Louisiana are try-
ing to prevent the removal of the Southern
University from New Orleans out into the
country. This university is at present the
only place where New Orleans children can
get State instruction above the sixth grade.
C In Keurucky hereafter the colored teach-
ers will be elected by the division boards of
education instead of by the county boards,
and a colored school visitor will be elected in
each of the districts of the State.
C The annual Hampton conference discussed
colored schools in Virginia and Negroes in
city life. Some at rent ion was given to efforts
to introduce proper dancing among the
youth.
U Gammon Theological Seminary and Clark
l niversitv at South Atlanta. Ga.. have had
a single president, but next year will revert
to the older plan of two presidents. Dr.
$• E. Idleznan. a white man. was the former
president, and there has been much dis-
satisfaction with his work.
^ In the final settlement of the Peabody
School Fund. $1,300,000 goes to the white
normal school at Nashville, about $300,000
to other white schools, and $350,000 to the
John F. Slater Fund, which is for colored
people.
U The National Association of Teachers in
Colored Schools met in Chattanooga under
the presidency of W. T. B. Williams. The
organization was welcomed to the city by
the mayor, and heard during its session
papers by H. L. Keith, of Nashville: J. H. A.
Brazzleion, of Oklahoma: Dr. L. B. Moore
and Dr. G. E. Haynes. M. W. Dogan of
Wiley University was elected president for
the ensuing year.
f In Boston .2 per cent, of the teachers and
1.6 per cent, of the pupils in the public
schools are of Negro descent.
C Julius Rosenwald has promised to give
81,250 annually to Meharry College, provided
>5,000 is raised elsewhere. He has also given
>25,000 to Mr. B. T. Washington for colored
schools.
MEETINGS.
rTrHE National Independent Political
League has divided into two leagues,
one supporting Roosevelt and the other sup-
porting Wilson.
C The National Association of Colored
Women's Clubs held its eighth biennial ses-
sion at Hampton Institute. It reported a
club membership of 10.908, and a total of
$$2,424 collected in two years by the con-
stituent clubs.
Resolutions protesting against "Jim Crow**'
cars, race segregation, lynching and declar-
ing in favor of lull woman suffrage were
adopted. The next convention will meet at
Wilberforc-e University in 1914.
C The National Medical Association of col-
ored professional men met at Tuskegee on
August 27-28-29.
C This month the national Baptist con-
vention will meet at Houston. Tex.: 10.000
colored people are expected.
C The National Negro Business League lias
held its thirteenth annual session in Chicago.
C The colored citizens of Columbus will oc-
cupy a day ax the Ohio-Columbus centennial
celebration. Among the speakers will be
Assistant Attorney-General W. H. Lewis,
John Mitchell of Richmond and E. H.
Morris of Chicago.
MUSIC AND ART.
THE colored people of Atlanta and
vicinity are giving their third annual
music festival and with it a pageant.
C The London (Eng.) Musical Times says:
"Musicians are much indebted to Sir Herbert
Tree for quite a considerable quantity of sig-
nificant and charming music resulting from
the actor-managers commissions to com-
posers to write for his sumptuous productions
of Shakespearian and romantic plays at His
Majesty's Theatre. Prominent among these
composers is Mr. S. Coleridge-Taylor, wuo
provided the incidental music for ‘Herod*
(1900): ‘Ulysses’ (1901); ‘Nero’ (1902) and
‘FaustJ (1908). To this list is now added his
score for the production of Shakespeare's
^Othello.’ A distinguishing feature of Mr.
Coleridge-Taylors music to all the above-
mentioned plays is the melodious character
of the principal themes, and this is particu-
larly marked in his latest contribution to the
stage.
220
THE CRISIS
*3 Mr. Pedro T. Tinsley has published a
practical method of singing which has re-
ceived considerable praise.
<i Miss Laura Wheeler of Hartford. Conn.,
was among the prize winners at the Ameri-
can Academy of Fine Arts in Philadelphia.
*3 Statues of Alexander Dumas’ father, him-
self and his son. will soon adorn the Place
Malesherbes, Paris. The name of the square
will probably be changed to ‘'Place des Trois
Dumas."
<2 Mr. Roy Wilfred Tibbs of Lexington, Ky.,
was among those graduating in the class of
1912 from the Oberlin (0.) Conservatory
of Music. During the school session Mr.
Tibbs was heard in an admirably planned
musical program.
<3 At New Orleans, La., an initial concert
by the St. Katharine orchestra, Mr. Louis
Tio, conductor, was given in June, under the
management of Mr. S. C. Baumann. The
orchestra, which is composed of thirty-five
capable musicians, was warmly greeted by a
large audience.
*5 The annual music festival at Peterboro,
N.	H., in honor of the composer, Edward
MacDowell, was held late in August. The
festival opened on the pageant stage with
Coleridge-Taylor’s “Hiawatha,” by the
MacDowell Choral Club and an orchestra,
and was followed by a fete representative of
the court of Provence.
<2 The Thompson Music Company, well-
known publishers of Boston, Mass., have
published a berceuse for violin with piano
accompaniment, written by Mr. Clarence C.
White of Boston. A violin recital was given
by Mr. White on July 13 at Lenox, Mass.
He was heard also at Portsmouth, N. H., and
Portland, Me., during the month of August.
<1 Miss Myrtle Mae Williams of St. Paul,
Minn., has charge this year of the pianoforte
classes of the West End Branch of the
Y.	W. C. A. in St. Paul. Miss Williams is
a former graduate of the New England Con-
servatory of Music of Boston, Mass.
^ A “folk festival” of the Indian, Zulu
and Negro students from the Hampton Insti-
tute of Virginia was lately held in Beverly,
Mass. Mrs. William Howard Taft and other
>rominent society women acted as patron-
esses of the interesting event. The program
included soli, choruses, war and love dances,
tableaux by the students and speeches by
Major Henry L. Higginson, Dr. H. B.
Frissell, principal of the institute, and
students.
<1 A newly published composition for orches-
tra by Henry F. Gilbert, the American com-
poser who has so often presented the Negro
folk music in artistic form, was played in
New York on the evening of July 16.
The work “Americanesque” is a symphonic
and humorous treatment of three old Negro
tunes.
Musical America says:	“The composer
has managed the familiar melody with genu-
ine poetical effect. The work should produce
an invigorating and jollifying effect, inter-
esting to the trained musical mind, while
pleasing the casual listener.”
PERSONAL.
BERT FLINT, a colored private in the
United States Twenty-fifth Infantry,
saved four young children from death near
Plumbwater, Wash.
*3 Catherine Lealtad ranked first among
seventy-nine graduates of the Mechanical
Arts High School of St. Paul. Minn. She
is seventeen years old and will attend the
University of Minnesota.
<3 S. F. Boston, the colored editor of the
West Virginia Register, saved a white man
from death recently at a railway crossing in
Huntington, W. Va.
•3 Miss Viola Smith has won a medal for
declamation over seven white contestants at
the Lake County convention of the W. C.
T. U., Mentor, 0.
<3 Mrs. Ida Sharp Bourne, a colored mis-
sionary to Africa, is dead. She was teacher
and instructor of music at the College of
Music in West Africa, Liberia, and on her
return home in 1905 made a lecture tour
through the United States. She had traveled
extensively and met many distinguished
personages.
<3 Mr. George E. Wibecan is dead at the
age of eighty-one years. He was a promi-
nent figure among colored New Yorkers for
many years.
<3 Dr. R. F. Boyd, a well-known colored
physician in Nashville, Tenn., is dead at the
age of sixty. He was a man who stood high
in his profession and owned considerable
properly.
*3 L. W. Livingstone, United States Consul
at Cape Haytien, Havti, is spending his
vacation in Europe.
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
221
^ Jackson, a colored student at Oxford
lDiversity, won the 1.500-metre race at the
Olympic games. The credit of this victory
goes to England and the Negro race has
scarcely been mentioned.
3 Parker N. Bailey, a colored Harv ard grad-
uate and teacher in the M Street High
School. Washington. D. C.. is dead.
CRIME.
j\NE or two Negroes were lynched at
Hall’s Station. Ala. They had killed
a white man named Tutt.
*3 Leonard Potts, who had killed Sheriff
Stevens near Clarkesville. Tex., was shot to
death.
<3 John Williams was lynched in Plummer-
ville. Ark., for shooting an orhcer.
*3 T. Z. Cotton, a sixteen-year-old colored
boy of Columbus, Ga.. killed a white bov.
He was tried and sentenced to three years*
imprisonment for manslaughter. He was
then taken from the guards by a mob and
shot to death.
<3 A race war arising over the ^chastise-
ment’’ of a Negro has been going on at
Plainville. near Rome. Ga. Seven Negroes
have been killed and eleven Negroes and
four whites severely wounded. The Negroes
were killed without mercy, two of them hav-
ing been placed on a railroad track and a
train allowed to pass over their bodies. •
*3 At Corpus Christi. Tex., in a race riot, a
colored woman and a white man have been
killed, and one colored man injured.
<3 In Maryland, after six months’ secret
search, directed by the governor, four men
have been arrested for the lynching of King
Johnson on the night before last Christmas.
The Burns Detective Agency is responsible
for the arrests. It is said that Governor
Goldsborough personally paid for the cost of
the investigation.
*3 Colored men have been killed by police-
men in Paducah. Ky., Dallas. Tex., Louis-
ville, Ky., Fayetteville, N. C.. and Fort
Worth, Tex.
•3 At Fordvce, Ark., a company of State
militia invaded a Negro neighborhood and
injured fourteen colored people, two of
whom will die. The governor has publicly
reprimanded the soldiers and dishonorably
discharged the captain.
*3 Six white men are under arrest in Wash-
ington charged with murdering a Negro
for $2.
*3 Two fourteen-year-old white boys shot and
killed a twelve-year-old colored boy near
Dayton. 0.
*3 A white man at Mobile. Ala., has been
arrested for interfering with a colored mail
clerk.
<3 Two white men have finally been ban get l
in Tennessee for the murder aud burning of
Ben. Pettigrew, a colored land owner, and
his two children.
<3 Frank Richardson, whose case has been
spoken of before in The Crisis, has been
hanged in Alabama. He killed a white man
in self-defense and several others in trying
to escape the mob.
COURTS.
T N Florida a colored man at Plant City
was awaiting an early train when he was
accosted by a policeman. He threatened the
policeman with a revolver and escaped. He
was followed by officers and bloodhounds
and finally shot the dogs and both of the offi-
cers. One of them died. The colored man
was tried and received the light sentence of
only one year.
<3 In Los Angeles. Cal.. G. O. Cochran, a
colored man, brought a case against the
proprietor of a theatre for refusing him
admittance to the first floor on the grouud
of color. After a stubbornly contested trial
Mr. Paul N. Nash, the attorney for the
complainant, secured a decision for his client
of >30 damages and costs. This is the first
time that the owner or manager of a place
of public amusement has been punished in
Southern California for violating the civil
rights law of the State.
<3 Judge Lewis Fawcett of Brooklyn de-
clares that the proportion of black criminals
in relation to the population is much smaller
than among the whites.
<3 By reversing the decision of the lower
court in the case of S. A. Bayliss against the
Phoenix Board of Education, the Supreme
Court of Arizona upheld the constitutionality
of the State law to segregate colored children
in the schools.
222
THE CRISIS
<3 A penalty of $500 was recovered by Mrs.
Minerva Miller, a colored woman, who was
excluded from a Paterson theatre because of
her color. The Supreme Court has upheld
the decision.
Cj The colored people of Oklahoma are con-
tinuing to fight the grandfather clause in the
courts. They suffered one reverse in the
Okmulgee County case, but have tiled excep-
tions.
<3 Joseph Butt, a colored man of Fannin
County, Ga., is suing the registrars for dis-
franchising him under the new law of the
State. He is being helped by colored secret
societies.
. THE GHETTO.
'PROPERTY owners in Harlem, this city,
have been attaching the following pro-
viso to all sales of property:
‘‘Each of the parties hereto, for himself,
or herself, his or her, and each of bis or
her heirs, legal representatives, successors
and assigns, does hereby covenant and agree
to and with each of the other parties hereto
and his, her and their and each of their
legal representatives, successors and assigns,
that neither of the parties hereto nor bis,
her or their, or either of their heirs, legal
representatives or assigns, shall or will at
any lime hereafter, up to and including the
first day of June, 1925, permit or cause to
be permitted, or suffer or allow or cause to
be suffered or allowed either directly or in-
directly, the said premises or any part
thereof, to be used or occupied in whole or
in part by any Negro, mulatto, quadroon, or
octoroon of either sex, whatsoever, or any
person popularly known and described as a
Negro, mulatto, quadroon, or octoroon of
either sex as a tenant, subtenant, guest,
boarder or occupant, or in any other way,
manner or capacity, whatsoever, excepting
only that any one family, occupying an entire
house or an entire flat or an entire apartment,
may employ one male and one female Negro
or Negress or two Negresses or one male and
one female mulatto or two female mulattoes
or one male and one female quadroon or two
female quadroons, or one male and one female
octoroon, or two female octoroons, as house-
hold servants to perform only the duties
ordinarily performed by a household
servant.”
Such agreements, however, are not stop-
ping the spread of the colored population,
which is continually invading new streets.
•j In certain Chicago hotels colored waiters
are compelled to sign this agreement:
“I understand that my services may be
terminated at any time without prior notice,
salary to be paid to time of discharge. T
also agree to pay for all breakages or fines
imposed on me by the head of my depart-
ment. And should I be caught eating while
on duty or taking provisions away from
kitchen or dining room I agree to pay $5 as
fine. I further agree that if, at any time
during my employment or within sixty days
after the termination of same, my employers
shall desire to search my person, room, trunk,
clothing or effects, I will gladly submit to
such examination without objection, and
hereby waive all claims for damages on ac-
count of such search or examination.”
The wages paid are $25 a month.
<3 At the Federal prison in Atlanta, Ga.,
white and colored prisoners are now sepa-
rated in the diuing room. “Formerly,” the
Atlanta Constitution says, “the men were
seated in rows on benches at long, desk-
like tables, and there was no discrimination
as to color.
“Believing that the new system would con-
duce more largely to the individual prisoners
self-respect and aid in establishing a new
viewpoint as to his obligations, the warden
succeeded in providing the small tables.”
<3 At Broken Bow, Okla., white citizens are
trying to drive out the colored employees of
local lumber mills.
<3! The legislature of Louisiana has passed a
law authorizing towns to segregate colored
homes by refusing building permits at will.
<3 Charleston, S. C., is trying to separate
the races on the street cars.
*3 At the Alabama State Bar Association
George Huddleston, a white lawyer, said that
only five per cent, of the population of Ala-
bama was voting.
“It is foolish of the people of Alabama
that they have denied suffrage to such a
large part of our population,” said the
speaker; “the Negro is here to stay, and when
you deny him suffrage you have taken away
from him the greatest factor toward making
him a good citizen.”
He was violentlv opposed bv Governor
O’Neil.
<3 In Indianapolis colored children will not
be allowed to play on the courthouse play-
grounds which are in the center of the city.
MENOFTHE
MONTH
.j?L4TTMrE-M
SUFFRAGE WORKERS.
V\7E present tlie pictures this month of
vv several colored women interested in
"Votes for Women.”' Mrs. Mary Church
Terrell has long been an advocate of woman's
suffrage and is well known to readers of The
Crisis. Mrs. Margaret M. Washington was
elected president of the National Association
of Colored Women’s Clubs at the Hampton
meeting, where the association took strong
MRS. MARY CHURCH TERRELL
ground in favor of woman’s suffrage. Other
officers are Miss Ida R. Cummings, corre-
sponding secretary, and Miss Elizabeth L.
Davis, national organizer.
A FLYING MACHINE.
"V/TR. JAMES MARSHALL, a young’col-
^ ored man of Macon. Ga.. has just
patented a novel dying machine, a picture of
which we present. Marshall was born in
ISS4. studied at tlie Ballard School, and has
for years been employed in machine shops
until lie has acquired considerable knowledge
and skill. While working as second engineer
for the Mount Vernon Railway Company he
became interested in tlie Hying experiments
at Fort Myers. After several experiments
lie lias introduced the **cimimplanosc.>pe.’*
which he maintains is a safe liver, liecause it
cannot capsize, can stand still in the air. can
ascend or descend from any spot without
special devices and. dually, if the engine
stops the machine will still maintain its
equilibrium. The further development of this
promising invention will be watched with
interest.
224
THE CRISIS
A JOURNALIST.
TpEW colored people themselves know
what members of their race are daily
accomplishing. When the news came that
one of the editors of the Buffalo Time* was
THE LATE EDWAED W. CROSBY
dead few people knew that Edward Williams
Crosby was a colored man. it was, too, in
a sense a delicate compliment that none of
the obituary notices mentioned the man's
color, t or after all lie was a man and a
writer and not simply ‘‘colored.*' We men-
tion his Negro descent here only as a re-
minder. incentive and warning. Here was a
man who rose to a position of importance
because the unimportant fact of bis race
was not used to shut the door of opportunity
in his lace. He came to Buffalo as a young
man. over thirty years ago. He was about
thirty-six years old and was educated in
New \ ork and Albany, having been born
in the eastern part of the Stale. After corn-
in'' to Buffalo he acquired considerable fame
as a public speaker, his elocutionary gifts
being more than ordinary. He took a lead-
ing part in the organization of the old-time
Buffalo Lincoln Birthday Association, in co-
operation with the late Julius Francis, the
father of the movement, leading to
the general observance of Lincoln’s
birthday. Of a poetic temperament and
possessing rare literary talent, Mr. Crosby
naturally drifted into the newspaper busi-
ness. and for many years, up to tbe time he
was forced to relinquish labor because of his
failing bealth, he was connected with the
Time* as telegraph editor, editorial writer,
and the author of the “Junius Letter” and
“Snap Shots.**
An obituary notice in the Time* says:
“ ‘Ed’ Crosby was one of Buffalo’s best-
known and most esteemed ‘men about town,
made many friends and knew how to retain
them. He was of a warm-hearted, genial,
true-blue nature, entirely free from guile.
Lonest to tbe core, trusting and trustworthy.
He bore the vicissitudes of life easily and
well. His bodily sufferings were likewise
borne with fortitude and Christian resigna-
tion. May his eternal sleep be calm and
sweet.”
When the Niagara movement was first
formed in Buffalo in 1005, Mr. Crosby was
tbe chief instrument whereby the meeting
MRS. MARGARET M. WASHINGTON
<S'.-e page 223.;
was given wide newspaper publicity. While
he did not give matters concerning his race
undue prominence, yet he was deeply inter-
ested in the mass of his people.
the dill	T'he action of the Bull
moose party	Moose party in Chicago
has brought forth an
avalanche of editorials. The Negro question
was by far the greatest question before
the party, and the New York Journal reports
Mr. Roosevelt himself as saying:
“It looked for a time as though we would
break on the Negro issue. I don’t mean
that our party was in danger of going to
smash, but that it seemed as if some of our
supporters could not be reconciled.*’
The matter was precipitated by Mr. Roose-
velt's letter to Julian Harris of Georgia, a
Democrat who had been selected to lead the
third party in that State. The gist of
Mr. Roosevelt's letter is in the following
paragraph:
“I earnestly believe that by appealing to
the best white men in the South, the men of
justice and of vision, as well as of strength
and leadership, and by frankly putting the
movement in their hands from the outset we
shall create a situation by which the colored
men of tlie South will ultimately get justice,
as it is not possible for them to get justice
if we are to continue and perpetuate the
present conditions. The men to whom we
appeal are the men who have stood for
securing the colored man in his rights before
the law, and they can do for him what
neither the Northern white man nor the
colored men themselves can do. Our only
wise course from the standpoint of the
colored man himself is to follow the course
that we are following toward him in the
North and to follow the course we are fol-
lowing toward him in the South.”
This paragraph Mr. Roosevelt explained
before the convention; among other things
he said:
“In Republican national conventions hith-
erto there has been a large representation
of colored men—all from non-Republican
States, the virtue of Republicanism in the
Republican States taking only the form of
trying to make the Democratic States be
good. See what I mean?
“The colored delegates all came from.the
States that never cast a Republican electoral
vote, that never elected a colored man to
otlice, where, largely owing to the action
persisted in for forty-five years by the
Republican party, the colored man as a
matter of fact gradually has lost all his
political rights, so that the old policy of
attempting to impose on the Southern States
from without a certain rule of conduct
toward the Negro has, in fact, broken down.
And. friends. I regret to say that every man
who has ever been to a national convention
knows that the character of the great
majority of the colored delegates from the
South was such as to refiect discredit upon
the Republican party and upou the race
itself.
“I am giving you the explanation as
minutely as I know how.
“Now as soon as the Progressive party
was formed I at once set about, as many
other men in different States did. securing
from the Northern States themselves an
ample recognition of the colored man in
these States, so that as a matter of fact
there is in this convention a representation
from the Republican States of colored men
such as there never has been before anything
like in any convention in the country. * * *
“That is what the Progressives have finally
succeeded in doing in the North. \Ye have
done it by simply encouraging the best men
in the North to act squarely by the colored
men as they would by the white men. \Yc
have not done it by trying to dragoon the
white men into that action. The other system
of trying to force in the far Southern States
conditions that we cannot make exist there
has failed. I propose to take toward the
Southern States the exact attitude* that we
take to West Yirginia and Maryland.”
Mr. Harris replied as follows to
Mr. Roosevelt's letter:
226
THE CRISIS
“The South has reached the point, how-
ever, where an intelligent discussion of vital
issues must take the place of narrow pleas
of factionalism. And the greatest stimulus
the South has ever received in this direction
is your decision to give us the opportunity
to build a real opposition party to the poli-
tics burdened Democracy. In this you will
have whatever help my earnest co-operation
can lend you, and I cannot but believe there
are hundreds of thousands of others in the
South who will gladly join in the acceptance
of this joyous deliverance the National
Progressive party promises to afford. You
have in effect said to the South ‘Go ahead
and form your new party organization on
your lines and as you see fit. You are the
best judges of the best methods in your
own section.’ That is all the South has
ever asked.”
The convention refused to seat any Negro
delegates from the South if their seats were
disputed. The most obvious interpretation
of this action is made by the New Haven
Register, which says:
“It amounts to just this, cleared of all
fog and nonsense: Theodore Roosevelt
wants the votes of the Negroes, a great
many of whom he undoubtedly got in the
May primaries in such States as Massa-
chusetts, Maryland and Ohio. . He proposes
all consideration for the Negroes in States
where their full voting strength is counted
at the polls. In Southern States, where the
full strength of the Negro does not count at
the polls, he has no use for them. He slaps
the latter in the face, thereby to gain the
favor of the white population.”
The Washington (D. C.) Herald adds:
“Mr. Roosevelt, in deciding to ignore the
request of the colored man south of the
Mason and Dixon line for recognition in
Progressive politics has employed his gift
as a master of sophistry to a larger extent
than ever before. His fertility in ‘whys’ and
‘wherefores’ is amazing. At any rate, he is
determined that the color line is to be
sharply drawn in the South and that only
white men will be sought in that section.”
The New York Evening
Post in a long edi-
torial on “The Deserted
Negro” declares that:
comment of the
EVENING POST.
“Mr. Roosevelt had his way in Chicago.
Despite the protests of Jane Addaras and
many others, the party of ‘progress,’ which
bases its hopes for success on its program
of social justice, committed the injustice of
throwing out the Negro delegates from the
South, declaring for a ‘lily-white’ policy
there, and adopted its platform without a
single reference of any kind to the colored
man. The tenable injustice done him the
country over; the denial of cine and political
rights guaranteed to him; his practically
complete disfranchisement in the South—all
of these things were forgotten because the
apostle of justice himself hopes, with what
Jane Addams herself called ‘statesmanlike
(!) policy,’ to break up the solid South. So
the Negroes, even those who worked for
Roosevelt in the Taft convention, were flung
aside—just as he would fling aside any body
or set of men when it served his purpose
to do so. The Jews, themselves, to whom
he has toadied and whom he has flattered by
high appointments, he would discard as
readily as he has Mr. Taft, Mr. Root, and
his other tried friends and Cabinet associates,
should there be political profit to be gained
by taking an anti-Semitic position. If there
is any one group of men and women in this
country suffering from oppression, it is the
colored people; but the party of social jus-
tice is to think only of wrongs done to
whites!
“Undoubtedly Mr. Roosevelt is certain
that before the campaign is far along he
will win back the disaffected Negroes. He
has beyond question achieved what seemed
the impossible in regaining the affections
of many disgruntled whites in the South
after the Booker Washington luncheon, and
of the Negroes after the Brownsville episode.
His friends will not hesitate to use money
in his behalf and the Negro himself, slow
to anger and easy going, may recall those
many handsome actions of Roosevelt in the
White House, and those manly and just
letters on the Negro question, the hypocrisy
of which he has now so clearly demonstrated.
Perhaps the Negro will be fooled again as
he has been so many times before. Yet we
cannot think this so likely this time; for
there is increasing independence of thought
among the educated colored people and a
growing realization of their latent political
power. As Mr. Andrew B. Humphrey
pointed out the other day, 600,000 Negroes in
twenty-two States may elect the next Presi-
dent. They would, if they could but stand
together, if they had but the group con-
OPINION
227
sciousuess and solidarity so marked among
others in our cosmopolitan population. * * *
‘’That the whole episode will embitter the
unhappy lot of the Negroes of the country,
let no one doubt. It is difficult for those
who are enfranchised and socially free to
realize how terrible the burden this race
bears; how staggering the handicaps, and
how helpless it is without the ballot to rectify
its wrongs. Two recent happenings in the
South are especially ominous. Our readers
will recall how Mr. Roosevelt and the leading
white men of the South have applauded
Booker Washington’s advice to the Xegro
to acquire property, to be industrious and
law abiding as the true way to racial and
civic happiness. Well, in Mooresville, X. C.,
a self-respecting colored carpenter bought
real estate some years ago in a decent section
of the city; when he began to build his own
home on it this spring the city council passed
an ordinance forbidding it. In Greensville,
X. C., two brothel's were prevented by a
segregation ordinance from purchasing a
$65,000 piece of property they had con-
tracted for. The representatives of Anglo-
Saxon culture who owned the property re-
fused to return the $150 paid for the pur-
chase option on the ground that the
brothers had broken their contract! .
“In Georgia, last June. Anne Bostwiek,
a Xegress who had been previously declared
insane, killed the white woman who employed
her. She was shot to death by a mob of
white men, defenders of Anglo-Saxon supe-
riority. It is, of course, impossible for the
colored population to hold the officials re-
sponsible or to participate in the election of
others who will uphold them in their consti-
tutional rights as to the owning of property
or guarantee them the protection of the law
when accused of crime. They are helpless
and hopeless, for they are without remedy.
And the Progressive party, according to its
leader, says that, because there have been
venal Xegro delegates at Republican conven-
tions in the past (by whose votes he has
hitherto been only too glad to profit), this
oppressed race shall have no representatives
in the party of social justice! A distin-
guished Russian professor, recently visiting
in this country, on learning that ten millions
of people suffer all the hardships of both the
Russian peasant and the Russian Jew, ex-
claimed: ‘Heavens, how can they stand it?’
The answer is that they must not stand it.
Mr. Roosevelt’s falsity to them will be of
genuine value if it but stimulates them to
further efforts in their own behalf, and
strengthens their growing determination to
stand as a solid phalanx on behalf of their
rights—life, liberty and the pursuit of
happiness.”
NORTHERN'
COMMENT.
The Xew York World calls
Mr. Roosevelt’s action
“mocking a race:”
“ ‘Why is man a reasoning being,’ asked
Benjamin Franklin, ‘if he cannot find rea-
sons for what he wants to do?’ Mr. Roose-
velt wants the white vote at the South and
the Xegro vote at the Xorth, and he reasons
it out in a letter to the successor of ‘Uncle
Remus’ on a moral plane as elevated as any
highwayman ever adopted in forwarding a
desperate enterprise on the road.
“His new and original solution of the race
problem is that in the Xorthern States, where
in some cases colored voters hold the balance
of power, they are to have full political
rights and some honors, but in the Southern
States, where no one who hopes for white
votes can advocate the equality of the Xegro
before the law, they are to be cast out as
hopelessly ignorant and corrupt.”
The Hartford Con rant is even more
pointed:
“The Theodore Roosevelt who has just told
the Xegroes of the Southern States that
they must not try to butt into the conven-
tions of his new party is the same Theodore
Roosevelt who ten years ago—when he ap-
pointed a Xegro to the collectorship of the
port of Charleston—told remonstrating
white men that he wouldn’t shut the door of
hope and opportunity in any worthy citizen's
face because of that citizen’s color. He
wrote on that occasion: ’It has been my
consistent policy in every State where their
numbers warranted it to recognize colored
men of good repute and standing in making
appointments to office: I am unable to see
how I can legitimately be asked to make an
exception for South Carolina.’ He’s also
the same Colonel Roosevelt who might never
have lived to appoint anybody to office but
for the timely arrival on a certain Cuban
hillside, fourteen years ago. of some Xegro
regulars who knew their business.’’
The Springfield Republican calls
Mr. Roosevelt's letter “shifty and tortuous”
with passages “which attempt to befog the
228
THE CRISIS
essential question. It is represented that the
Progressive party could not rest its future
upon the black race, when, in truth, the
question is why the new party could not
make its appeal to both races and thus ignore
the color line, as the Constitution does. Dust
is also thrown about by Mr. Roosevelt’s irre-
levant dilation upon the welcome his party
gives to the Negro in the North, where the
color line in politics is negligible. But no
one can fail to see the essential point of this
humiliating performance, which is nothing
but the bid of an audaciously opportunist
politician for white men’s votes by showing
the black man the door.
“The feeling of disgust at the spectacle
is necessarily strong for two reasons. When
he was President Mr. Roosevelt paraded
himself as the defender of the black race’s
political rights in the South by forcing upon
the remonstrating whites of Indianola a
Negro postmistress, and by forcing upon the
remonstrating whites of Charleston, S. C.,
a Negro collector of customs. The ‘door of
hope’ for the black race he preached most
zealously in his eloquent letters to Southern
citizens at that time. The Rooseveltian con-
viction that Southern communities like the
city of Charleston should be compelled to
accept a colored collector of the port was so
unshakable that Dr. Crum was kept in office
throughout the second Roosevelt administra-
tion. But those were the days when
Mr. Roosevelt was not looking for white
men’s votes in South Carolina.
“The second reason why a feeling of dis-
gust overcomes one is that Mr. Roosevelt’s
new party is proclaimed to be peculiarly
one of ideals. If it were not for his holier-
than-thou attitude in forming a party with-
out bosses, a party without the withering
touch of big.business and crooked politics,
a party which should respond to every heart
beat of humanity and every human aspira-
tion for the noble, the good and the true, his
present attitude would be less exposed to the
derision of the ungodly and the tears of the
saints.”
The Springfield Morning Union says:
“Stripped of its sham and hypocrisy the
Roosevelt declaration of the third-term
party’s attitude toward the colored voter is
simply this: It is catering to the colored
voters in the North, where the Negro has
always been secure in his political rights, and
to the white voters in the South, where under
Democratic State rule the white men have
been able to deprive the Negro of his rights
by wholesale disfranchisement, intimidation
and other devices. In a word, the colonel
is riding two horses in his pretended solu-
tion of the race problem. He professes to
be for the colored man in the North, but is
decidedly ‘agin him’ in the South. Colored
voters North and South, we believe, will see
through this shallow artifice. We believe
that few, if any, will desert the party that
has been their staunch friend for more than
fifty years to cast their lot with the party
that places the interests and rights of the
Southern Negro in the hands of such ‘men
of justice and of vision’ as the leaders of
the third-term party in Louisiana and other
Southern States.”
The Boston Transcript thinks that the
attitude of the colored delegates in the
Republican convention has had much to do
with Mr. Roosevelt’s state of mind.
“Certainly no one believes that that clause
would have been written had the colored
delegates at the Chicago convention yielded
to the tempting persuasiveness of Ormsby
McHarg, and betrayed their trust in suffi-
cient numbers to give Roosevelt the Repub-
lican nomination for President. They
showed a much keener sense of honor than
his lieutenants who attempted to debauch
them; but to make his point he marks him-
self ungrateful as well as illogical. It is
only another instance of his readiness to
sacrifice anybody, friend, well-wisher or
benefactor, who for the time being seems
to be an obstacle to the fruition of his
incorrigible obsession.”
When the Bull Moose party started, col-
ored people of South Carolina hastened to
offer assistance. They received a letter from
Colonel Roosevelt’s secretary July 16, saying
that Mr. Roosevelt “feels very much encour-
aged by your support and wishes to say
that he is going to make the hardest kind
of a fight that he knows how, and he hopes
that you will continue to back him up.”
When, however, Mr. Roosevelt found that
there were no South Carolina white men who
could organize the party, Mr. Roosevelt re-
fused to let the Negroes organize on the
ground that he could not build up his party
there “in antagonism to local usages,” South
Carolina was not represented in the
convention.
OPINION
229
The New York Tribune notes that “less
than 25 per cent, of the New Yorkers who
stand at Armageddon and battle for 'the rule
of the people' felt it safe to say that 'dis-
tinction of race or class in political life has
no place in a democracy' and that the
Negroes ‘deserve and must have justice, op-
portunity and a voice in their own govern-
ment.’ Mr. Timothy L. Woodruff explained
that he approved the resolution, but could
not support it. And other heroic souls took
the same ground, apparently fearing that
incautious loyalty to principle might, as a-
special dispatch to the personal organ of
Mr. Roosevelt puts it, 'prove embarrassing
to Colonel Roosevelt.’
“So the 'door of hope’ in the third-term
movement closes on the Southern Negro. If
he looks back, puzzled to the brave days of
the championship of Dr. Crum, just le*t him
realize that the voice of the people does not
find him a convenient or useful instrument
at the present moment.”
The Tribune continues:
“Mr. Roosevelt has shut the 'door of hope’
in the face of the Negro with a bang, but
the Negroes and all others who would be
endangered if this lawless man. with his
hostility to courts, his disregard for consti-
tutions. should have his way. may rest con-
tent. The colonel’s opportunity for mischief
lias passed; the door of hope has been elo?ed
upon him; and all good Americans can be
thankful that the derided Constitution re-
mains as a bulwark.”
The Washington Herald thinks that:
“Mr. Roosevelt’s attitude toward the col-
ored man in this particular instance is
thoroughly in accord with his past record.
There would never have been a wholesale
dismissal of soldiers at Brownsville if the
companies had been composed of white men,
and every one knows that Mr. Roosevelt’s
recognition of the Negro during his admin-
istration was infrequent and not spontane-
ous. It is a pity, of course, that he has
gone to the extent of arousing race preju-
dices in a section where, during the past
few years, there has been at least an outward
show of harmony. Desperate conditions,
however, demand desperate remedies and the
sacrifice of the colored brother in the South
is to he made complete.”
The Hartford Courant is suspicious of
Mr. Roosevelt’s love for the South. **rn the
lexicon of Theodore Roosevelt’s youth,” it
says, “the gray-clad soldiers of the South
were rebels and traitors; it is remembered
that on one occasion he was insultingly rude
to the aged and broken Jefferson Davis.
After his arrival at the White House, all
that was changed; the country began to hear
about his Georgia mother and his two uncles
who fought in the Confederate army: he
made a young Lee one of his White House
aides. This summer the two Confederate
uncles have reappeared in his writings and
discourses. When the Republican party de-
nied him the third term he clamored for. and
when he, thereupon, instantly decided that
the country must have a new party right
away, he announced that he wanted in his
new party not only 'progressive’ Republi-
cans, but also 'progressive' Democrats, and
not only the sons and grandsons of the
soldiers of the Union, but also the sons and
grandsons of the soldiers of the Confederacy.
It was at that very inopportune moment that
some Negro citizens down South embar-
rassed the colonel greatly by electing dele-
gates of their own race to his contention.
What was to be done?
“He has wriggled out of his quandary after
a fashion and with a most lavish expenditure
of language. The language boils down to
this: No Negro delegates from the South
are wanted, and none need apply. Of course
he has plenty of tine words for the citizens
of African descent; he wants them to think
of liim as their truest and best friend as
far as circumstances permit. But in politics
fine words butter no parsnips. The Southern
Negroes have learned where they stand with
the colonel.”
The Boston Record calls the action of the
convention “the most* discordant note struck
in connection with the new party.” and con-
tinues: “It was avoided as long as pos-
sible. Long thought did not clarify the
mind of Colonel Roosevelt, who shifted and
sidled in his Julian Harris letter in a way
painful to his friends and displeasing to
many who would carry the abstract princi-
ples of absolute democracy and a voice for
everyone right through to practical applica-
tion everywhere. Jane Addams, whose mind
works as clearly, as sanely, and as close to
Christian principles as any in the land,
warned the new party to stop and look be-
fore disfranchising the Southern Negroes.
Her vision and her statesmanship are clearer
than Colonel Roosevelt’s on this point.”
230
THE CRISIS
roosevelt	Many papers cannot refrain
AND	from drawing comparisons
LINCOLN	between Roosevelt and Lin-
coln, a comparison of which
Mr. Roosevelt is very fond.
The New York Globe says that Mr. Roose-
velt is not suggestive of Lincoln:
“The Negro question is not now gravely
pressing, and William H. Taft and Woodrow
W ilson, no more than Theodore Roosevelt,
utter no protest against the notorious viola-
tion of the Fifteenth Amendment; neverthe-
less. the Negro question so relates to funda-
mental issues that the treatment of it is
definitely indicative of spirit. It is a most
extraordinary thing for a new national
political organization, pretending to be
specially progressive and to be greatly de-
voted to human rights, to begin its career
by espousing the most reactionary of doc-
trines. This doctrine implies recognition of
sectionalism; it is in square violation of the
Democratic principles that Colonel Roosevelt
declared for in his Carnegie Hall speech; it
fosters lawlessness by assuming that it is
permissible to select what parts of the Con-
stitution are to be obeyed and what dis-
obeyed.
“Abraham Lincoln, whose name and mem-
ory have so often been invoked during the
parturition of the new party, was too clear in
mind and too sound in morals to have
authorized or .consented to such action as
that at Chicago to-day and yesterday. The
new Progressive party has not made a pro-
gressive start.”
The New York Times is sure that:
“What Mr. Lincoln would say about this
can be imagined but not expressed; but the
reincarnated should have pondered long and
seriously before determining thus to cut up
by the roots the men who have been so loyal
and useful to him all these years, and who
were watered and attended to so carefully
by McHarg in his recent wanderings in the
South. Of course, McHarg has had nothing
to do with this latest ukase, so that he will
be absolved by his colored friends in the
South of any disposition to count them only
when they would come. He is entitled at
least to credit for playing the game
straighter than that, and even the head of
the Bull Moose herd should revise his proc-
lamation to the extent of noting exceptions
in the case of the colored delegates who, in
his behalf, went as far as they could go at
the Republican convention to disregard their
instructions.”
The Battle Creek Enquirer makes this
comparison:
“The Negroes asked Lincoln for bread and
they were given bread. The Negroes, far
more intelligent fifty years later, asked
Roosevelt for bread and he gave them a
stone.
“Lincoln’s heroic treatment of the Negro
question—his emancipation proclamation—
was issued a year prior to his coining before
the people for second election. Roosevelt’s
craven altitude toward the Negro is taken
on the eve of his coming before the people
for a third term as President. Lincoln’s
course was as far as the antipodes from a
popular appeal; Roosevelt’s course is so
patently a bid for the electoral votes of the
South that the simplest may understand.”
There is, of course, much speculation as to
what the attitude of the Negro is going to
be toward the new party.
The Philadelphia Enquirer thinks that:
“It is not difficult to predict the outcome.
The South will stand solidly by Wilson, and
the colored voters everywhere will stand
solidly by Taft. No man, white or colored,
is going to kiss the hand of the man who
knocks him down and kicks him.”
The Wilmington Every Evening thinks
that Mr. Roosevelt may have solidified the
Negro vote against himself, and the Bidde-
ford Journal says:
“In spite of the charge made by certain
Negro leaders that the Republican party has
failed to justify its pledges for a strict en-
forcement of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth
Amendments to the Constitution, the hope of
the race, so far as that hope has a foundation
in national politics, lies with the party to
which Abraham Lincoln belonged. The Ne-
groes can expect nothing from the Democratic
party; it is hardly possible, having been
smitten on one cheek by the new party as
soon as it was born, that they will be in a
mood to turn the other before the pain
caused by the first blow has been alleviated. ’
“It is already apparent that the attitude
of the colonel toward colored support in the
South will be vigorously resented by the
Negro voters of both that section and the
North,” says the Philadelphia Bccord.
“They would be more than human, indeed,
if they should overlook such a gratuitous
affront upon their race. Whether this
OPINION
231
scornful attitude will have any influence in
weakening the traditional adherence of the
Negroes to the G. O. P. is a matter that only
time can determine. During the Baltimore
convention a demonstration was made in that
city by a number of colored Democrats, and
it is not unlikely that the campaign will
bring to the front more of this class.”
m
SOUTHERN'
COMMENT.
This trend toward the
Democratic party is
even echoed by some
The Richmond Journal,
Southern papers.
for instance, says that “the only friends of
the Negro are the people of the South and
the only place left for him to go is in the
Democratic party, and he will only be ad-
mitted there when he asks to come, shows
that he has been purified of Republican
heresies, and that he is qualified by education
to appreciate the privilege of the ballot.”
On the whole, the Southern papers are
either gleeful or contemptuous.
The Galveston News declares that
Mr. Roosevelt's remarks are not “highly
illuminating.”
The Asheville Citizen regards the Negro as
“kicked out.”
“Meanwhile the big chief of the moose
tribe is heading what must now be known
as the party of the ‘lily whites’ and the
regenerated Northern Negro. For the dusky-
lmed son of the South there is no opening.
It is a hard blow when one considers what
Trojan service the tribe of Ham has per-
formed in the Southern Republican trenches.
If there was any unusually heavy digging
to be done, any subterranean lines to be
laid, it was always ‘my dark brother’ of the
South that the Republicans called upon. In
the various flights of the Bull Moose for
fame and office it was always the Southern
delegate who held the balloon. And now—
but let us drop the curtain on the harrowing
tragedy.”
Most of the Southern papers agree that
there is little chance of Roosevelt’s breoking
the solid South.
The Shreveport (La.) Times declares that
“the colonel has fooled nobody in this part
of the country. Plis bid for Southern sup-
port is about as cheap a piece of demagogism
as the country has witnessed in forty years.”
The Birmingham Age-Herald says that
“the colonel will get no Southern electoral
votes, no matter what position he takes on
the NegTo question or the boss-picked dele-
gates. The solid vote of the South, including
Maryland, West Virginia, Kentucky and
Missouri, will be cast for Wilson and Mar-
shall. Even sugar-raising Louisiana will
cast her electoral votes for the Democratic
nominees. The sage of Oyster Bay is dream-
ing when he thinks he can win even one
electoral vote in the South. He cannot, and
his grand standing will deceive no one in
this section of the country.
“He will, however, secure as many elec-
toral votes in the South as Mr. Taft will.”
“Mr. Roosevelt seems to think,'’ says the
Charleston Sews and Courier, “that the in-
telligence of the South is as low as its
resources were at the time he found it
politic to insult the section and the sec-
tion's leaders. He believes that the people
down this way are very gullible, very stupid,
wholly lacking in penetration. Southern
Democrats need not mingle with blacks in
their own States, but when they get North
they must receive Northern blacks as broth-
ers. Geography is to be the test of political
qualification. Isn’t that clever ? Why didn't
anybody happen to think about it before?
“Down South the lizard is considered a
curious enough thing, but nobody pays very
much attention to it. Youngsters sometimes
watch its antics with delight, but grown men
devote no time io it. Mr. Roosevelt as a
political lizard will be no more than a
curiosity.”
United States Senator Newlands hastened
to approve of Mr. Roosevelt's dicta and
adds:
“He will come out all right in the end. and
will reach the inevitable conclusion that the
blacks, as a race, must everywhere in this
country be deprived of sovereignty: and that
is what black suffrage means. The same
reason that justifies disfranchisement of the
blacks in party justifies it in government. If
we ought to have a white man’s party, we
should also have a white man's government.
“The colonel complained of black domina-
tion at Chicago. But what does he think of
black domination at Washington, maintained
by the black vote in five pivotal Northern
States, where they have the balance of
power? Does not the same reasoning which
demands the Negro's disfranchisement in
parties demand his disfranchisement in
government?”
232
THE CRISIS
The Hoboken Observer thinks that “John
Brown's Body” was not an appropriate song
for the Bull Moose convention, since Brown
was tlie man who undertook to give Negroes
their freedom by starting a revolution which
cost him his life; and the Boston Record,
quoting Colonel Roosevelt’s declaration that
“the question is disposed of now,” says with
prophetic insight “that it cannot be disposed
of so easily. He cannot do offhand with a
few words what others have not done
through many weary years. No question is
settled on a basis of favors for some and
postponement for others. Colonel Roosevelt's
attitude in this matter raises sharp questions
as to his ideas in attacking ‘sectionalism.’
It is sectionalism emphasized, giving to one
section a code of ethics not applicable by
him to another.”
One interesting result is a rather spirited
defense of Southern Negroes by the white
South, as when, for instance, the Mont-
gomery Advertiser declares that:
“In the South the thinking white man
knows that the third-term candidate’s at-
tempt to draw the line between the Northern
Negro and the Southern Negro, because the
Northern Negro is a better citizen, is mere
buncombe. The only difference between the
Negro of the North and the South is a
difference in numbers, and the more pro-
gressive Negroes in the North are not
weighed down by an immense mass of
ignorant Negroes, as are the more progres-
sive Negroes of the South. As a matter of
fact, the leaders of the Negroes in the South
are perhaps superior in education, common
sense and practical experience to the Negro
of the North.” _
KING'S DAUGHTERS	C°rPUS
AND INJURED	IS a PaP«r Pub‘
\-EoroFs	llshed in a thnvinS
Texas town on the
Gulf. It has been advocating the establish-
ment of an emergency hospital for Negroes
who are injured working on the piers and
urged the Kang’s Daughters, who are in
charge of the town’s hospital arrangement,
to take up the matter. These ladies, who
bear the badge of the silver cross “In His
Name,” refused, and the Caller comments:
“The King’s Daughters have said they do
not care to take upon themselves the pro-
viding of an emergency ward or hospital
under any circumstances for Negroes. So
be it.
“Going back then to the main question,
that of providing for the injured darkey
who gets a leg smashed or his back
crushed, we find we are just where we
started and the incident of the Negro, Frank
Henderson, who lay two or three hours in
a well-known physician’s office and was
finally carted off to the depot and then sent
to New Orleans, is likely to be repeated any
day, and does happen not infrequently.
“The matter can be looked at from sev-
eral standpoints. One is from the stand-
point of common humanity and the decent
treatment of a badly injured person. An-
other is from the standpoint of expediency,
convenience and the general welfare of the
public. To use a ladylike phrase, it isn t
‘nice’ to have smashed up and bloody col-
ored men lying around in physicians’ offices
for several hours nor in the public waiting
station.
“Perhaps the solution lies in part with
the colored people themselves. They are
prone to organize benevolent and protective
associations in considerable numbers for
their mutual protection. If they were to
form an association for the building and
equipping of a small emergency hospital,
located and operated with the approval and
supervision of some of the white people,
they would be doing their own people a
great service.”
m
<3 Joseph Fels says in the Philadelphia
Evening Ledger:	“Comparatively few
Philadelphians in comfortable circumstances
realize the extent to which a most merciless
kind of rack renting prevails in this alleged
‘city of homes.’ The worst sufferers from
this predatory system are the colored people.
Race prejudice is a great help to landlords
in enabling them to practice the worst kind
of extortions. This is a fact well enough
known to those whose business enables them
to get accurate information about rent paid
by those dealing with them, and information
nearly as accurate about wages received.
One of these men was able to figure from
information contained in his records that
the average wage received by his colored
customers is $0.00 a week and the average
rent paid by them is $18.40 a month. It
appears from this that our colored fellow
citizens pay nearly 43 per cent, of their
wages to Philadelphia landlords for the
privilege of living and working in the city.”
OPINION
233
Thomas Jesse Jones gives the following
statistics from the census of 1910 in the
Southern Workman:
Negro farm laborers and Negro farmers
of the South cultivate farms whose area is
approximately 100,000,000 acres. Negro
farmers cultivate 12,500,000 acres of South-
ern land.
forty per cent, of all agricultural workers
in the South are Negroes.
There are in the South approximately two
and a third million Negro agricultural work-
ers, of whom almost one and a half million
are farm laborers and S90.000 are farmers
owning or renting their farms.
Of the S90.000 Negro farmers in the-South
218.000.	or 25 per cent., are owners. In
Virginia, for example, 67 per cent, of all
Negro farmers are owners.
Negro farm owners of the South own and
cultivate 15,702.579 acres, which they have
acquired in less than fifty years. Add to
this sum the land owned, but not cultivated
by the Negroes of the South and the land
owned by the Negroes of the North, and the
total land ownership of the Negroes of the
Inited States undoubtedly aggregated
20.000.	000 acres in 1910.
The total value of land and buildings on
farms owned or rented by the colored farm-
ers of the South is almost $1,000,000,000.
Negro farms of the South have increased
20 per cent., while Negro population- has
increased 10 per cent. White farms, on the
other hand, have increased only IS per eeut..
while the white population increased 24 per
cent.
B
<5 Ever since Mr. Roosevelt invited Mr.
Booker T. Washington to stay for luncheon
we have wondered, in view of the hurrah it
stirred up. just what part of the sequent
indignation was pose and what part sin-
cerity. A few Sundays ago a team made up
of members of the New York Giants was
booked to play an exhibition game in Jersey
City against a nine called the Smart Set.
When it transpired that the Smart Set team
was an organization of Negro players, many
of the Giants were outraged and threatened
to leave the grounds. But the attendance
was large and the money was guaranteed,
so the Caucasian ball players, fleteherizing
their pride, decided to play.-
By far the wildest-eyed, most aggrieved,
most insulted player of all was Mr. Louis
Drucke of Texas, seh, who was slated ro
pitch for the Giants. Mr. Drucke’s Southern
blood went to 2125 in no time. Play with
niggebs ? A Texas gentleman ?
So Mr. Drucke said no. he wouldnT pitch.
Leastwise not under the name of Drucke.
••Put my name in the papers as CEBrien,”
said Mr. Drucke of Texas, •'and 1*11 pitch.”
Which was agreed ro. and Mr. Drucke, alias
O’Brien, pitched the game.
The incident made us wonder again just
how sincere were most human prejudices.
Pitching against the black brothers was ’to
be borne, but to have it known—that, Maw-
russ. is something else again.— The Metro-
politan Magazine.
m
<3 The Negro may be looked down upon by
the white man, but it is a significant thing
that the white man is now getring his
musical inspiration from the Negro. The
ragtime rhythm which comes so natural to
the shuttling feet of the African is the
rhythm by which the world is singing and
dancing to-day. While much of the ragtime
music which is put out is villainous sturf.
the fact remains that a mine of musical
wealth has been opened up in the form of
this peculiar and very catching movement.
It will leave its stamp on music for ail time,
and not only popular music, bur music of
the very highest class. We find some exam-
ples of ragtime in the music of the older
composers, but they are only sporadic. It is
clear that the possibilities of this bitchy
syncopated time were not appreciated until
within the last few years. Now the American
composers have got hold of the idea and in
truth ragged it to a frazzle. It would be
interesting to hear what the master musicians
of a generation or two from now will make
of ragtime, wheu it is developed to its fullest
scope. This country is moving ahead musi-
cally with great rapidity. True, we are not
producing many great masters of composi-
tion as yet. but our time is coming. The
field is being cultivated and in due course
the fruits will be gathered. Americans have
an insistent taste for music. So far it has
been satisfied in the main with rather crude
products; but all this is educative, remember.
After a while better things will come. A
great and growing young nation should not
be in a hurry to achieve; its work is
preparation.— The Pathfinder, Washington
D.	C.
EDITORIAL
LimmiiminmummmimmunnmniimnumHummuminimiii
VOTES FOR WOMEN.
HY should the colored
voter be interested in
woman's suffrage? There
are three cogent reasons.
First, it is a great human
question. Nothing hu-
man must be foreign, uninteresting or
unimportant to colored citizens of the
world. Whatever concerns half man-
kind concerns us. Secondly, any agita-
tion, discussion or reopening of the
problem of voting must inevitably be
a discussion of the right of black folk
to vote in America and Africa. Essen-
tially the arguments for and against are
the same in the case of all groups of
human beings. The world with its ten-
dencies and temptations to caste must
ever be asking itself how far may the
governed govern? How far can the re-
sponsibility of directing, curbing and
encouraging mankind be put upon man-
kind? When we face this vastest of
human problems frankly, most of us,
despite ourselves and half unconsciously,
find ourselves strangely undemocratic,
strangely tempted to exclude from
participation in government larger and
larger numbers of our neighbors. Only
at one point, with disconcerting unani-
mity, do we pause, and that is with
ourselves. That we should vote we can-
not for a moment doubt even if we are
willing to acknowledge, as most of us
are, that we are neither all wise nor
infinitely good.
This fact should give us pause; if we
in our potent weakness and shortcom-
ings see the vast necessity for the ballot
not only for our own selfish ends, but
for the larger good of all our neighbors,
do not our neighbors see the same
necessity? And is not the unanswer-
able cogency of the argument for uni-
versal suffrage regardless of race or sex
merely a matter of the point of view?
Merely a matter of honestly putting
yourself in the position of the disfran-
chised, and seeing the world through
their .eyes? The same arguments and
facts that are slowly but surely opening
the ballot box to women in England and
America must open it to black men in
America and Africa. It only remains
for us to help the movement and spread
the argument wherever we may.
Finally, votes for women mean votes
for black women. There are in the
United States three and a third million
adult women of Negro descent. Except
in the rural South, these women have
larger economic opportunity than their
husbands and brothers and are rapidly
becoming better educated. One has only
to remember the recent biennial con-
vention of colored women’s clubs with
its 400 delegates to realize how the
women are moving quietly but forcibly
toward the intellectual leadership of
the race. The enfranchisement of these
women will not be a mere doubling of
our vote and voice in the nation; it will
tend to stronger and more normal
political life, the rapid dethronement of
the “heeler” and “grafter” and the
making of politics a method of broadest
philanthropic race betterment, rather
than a disreputable means of private
gain. We sincerely trust that the entire
Negro vote will be cast for woman suf-
frage in the coming elections in Ohio,
Kansas, Wisconsin and Michigan.
EDITORIAL
235
MR. ROOSEVELT.
were
after
many
time
of
are glad that at last
there can be no doubt in
any colored man’s mind
concerning the attitude
of Theodore Roosevelt
toward his race. There
us who were disposed,
had dimmed the bitter
memory, to attribute the unjust dis-
missal of hundreds of colored soldiers
who were not even charged with wrong-
doing. because of the suspected but far
from proven guilt of a few—there were
some of us who wished to attribute this
official Brownsville “lynching” to the
mistaken but sincere impulse of a strong
personality rather than to meaner
motive.
Since then, however, Theodore Roose-
velt has been put to a greater test. To
explain the action of his progressive
convention one must realize Mr. Roose-
velt's attitude toward black men.
He does not respect them. It is doubt-
ful if ever in his life he has really known
a colored man whom he thought was
wholly a man. The colored men with
whom he has come in contact have
executed his orders, have taken his com-
mands and his money, but his associa-
tion with them has been essentially that
of master and servant, not of man and
man. Even when he has defended col-
ored men his motive may have been
stubborn determination to have his own
way rather than a desire for real justice.
For this reason Mr. Roosevelt has
been unreasonably irritated against
Negroes several times. It would be
impossible for him to explain his own
feeling or altogether account for it. It
has in it a certain Southern flavor and
is perhaps something like what one
would feel if one’s cat should insist on
argument and rights instead of purring
obedience. ITow else can we explain
Mr. Roosevelt’s irritation at the black
soldiers who saved his regiment in
Cuba? ITis violence at Brownsville?
His evident deep resentment at the
action of the colored delegates at Chi-
cago? With thousands of his white
fellow Americans Mr. Roosevelt shares
that half-conscious contempt for black
men which arises because of an almost
absolute lack of contact between the
races on planes of equality and mutual
respect.
Starting then with this there can be
little doubt but that the mission of
Ormsby McHarg to the South was based
on the assumption that the buying up
of Negro delegates was simply a matter
of money. The sixty-six colored dele-
gates in the Republican convention held
the balance of power; if the bulk of
them had been purchasable they could
have sold their votes for large sums of
money, and there is little doubt but that
Mr. Roosevelt’s agents offered them
large sums.
There was, too. historic reason for
Mr. Roosevelt’s assumption: There has
always been a disgracefully large pur-
chasable element among the black dele-
gates from the South. It has been a
shame, but a shame the cause of which
is perfectly plain, and for which the
Negro race could not in justice be
blamed.
Moreover, it happened that precisely
that reform for which Mr. Roosevelt and
others had sometimes but not always
asked was gradually coining; never be-
fore had a Southern Negro delegation
to the Republican convention contained
so large a proportion of self-respecting
men who could not be bribed. This fact
Mr. Roosevelt and his agents discovered,
but the discovery seems again to have
irritated rather than pleased; just as in
Reconstruction times, the one thing that
the white South seems to have feared
more that bad Negro rule was good
Negro rule, and it was the reform gov-
ernments of South Carolina and Missis-
sippi that led to the overthrow of Negro
rule just at the moment when reform
seemed about to succeed.
236
THE CRISIS
So here is repetition of history: the
sixty-six Negro delegates had many
politicians and “grafters,” but it had
also merchants, lawyers and physicians,
honest, straightforward, unpurchasable
men, a body of encouraging promise for
better things. Not only that, but in the
new Progressive party sat several black
delegates of high calibre, quite fit, we
are told by Mr. Roosevelt himself, to
stand beside their white fellows.
It was such men, who for themselves
and as solemn trustees for the rights
and hopes of 10,000,000 human beings—
10,000,000 men, women and children who
have been wronged as few modern
peoples have been wronged—asked the '
adoption of this plank by the New
Crusaders:
“The Progressive party recognizes that
distinctions of race or class in political life
have no place in a democracy. Especially
does the party realize that a group of
10.000.	000 people who have in a generation
changed from a slave to a free labor system,
re-established family life, accumulated
$1,000,000,000 of real property, including
20.000.	000 acres of land, and reduced their
illiteracy from 80 to 30 per cent., deserve
and must have justice, opportunity and a
voice in their own government. The party,
therefore, demands for the American of
Negro descent, the repeal of unfair discrimi-
natory laws and the right to vote on the
same terms on which other citizens vote.”
This is the exact wording of the
original plank which was written in The
Crisis office.
Such was the meagre declaration that
black men asked. They did not get this.
Not only was this refused, but every
suggested modification, refinement and
watering down was rejected, and the
platform of the new Progressive party
of human rights appears absolutely
silent on the greatest question of human
rights that ever faced America 1
Furthermore, lest there should be any
misinterpretation of this silence, the
party proceeded to bar practically every
representative of 8,000,000 Southern
Negroes and to recognize delegates
chosen by Southern conventions open
“to white people only.” To seal this
compact these Hosts at Armageddon
stood and sang:
“Mine eyes have seen the glory
of the coming of the Lord!”
Selah!
Now, Mr. Black Voter—you with
600,000	ballots in your hand, you with
the electoral vote of Illinois, Indiana,
Ohio and New York in your pocket—
WIIAT ARE YOU GOING TO DO
ABOUT IT?
m
VIRGINIA CHRISTIAN.
SIRGINIA CHRISTIAN
was a product of Vir-
ginia far more than of
the colored race. It
was the social organiza-
tion of white Virginia
that made this girl what she was
and then brutally killed for it. The
State pushed her down into poverty
despite the hard-earned pennies of her
father; the State refused to educate her
or even to let Northern philanthropy
do it; the State put her as a servant,
body and soul, into the hands of her
mistress and constituted that mistress
judge and jury over this ignorant, way-
ward child. At the age of sixteen—
and, despite the attempt of Governor
Mann to becloud the fact, the testimony
as to the girl’s tender age is incontro-
vertible—this child was convicted of
murder, when there is npt a white man
in the nation who after impartial
review of the facts would not have to
admit that every circumstance shows
lack of premeditation with a strong
case for self-defense. Make this child
as brutal, immoral and irresponsible as
you will and the black fact remains
that a civilized community made her
and then murdered her for being herself.
And that community was Christian
Virginia!
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE
THE MONTH’S WORK.
HTHE association now numbers 755 mem-
bers. At the last board meeting the
Indianapolis branch was admitted to inter-
membership.
Headers of The Crisis learned in its last
issue of the death of the managing editor.
Mary Dunlop Maclean. At the meeting of
the board held Tuesday, August 6. a motion
was unanimously carried that “immediate
steps be taken to raise a memorial fund to
Mrs. Mary Dunlop Maclean, who had given
herself so untiringly to the association’s
work.” The question of the exact disposal
of the fund, whether it should constitute
the beginning of an association endowment
or should be used for some special piece of
work, was to be left to a future date. The
formation of a memorial fund committee is
now in progress. Mrs. Maclean was known
to many of those most interested in the
success of The Crisis and the work of the
association. It grieved her deeply when
she was obliged to absent herself, even for
a few days, from her Crisis desk. Shall we
not now, in the only way possible to us,
perpetuate her work? Contributions to the
memorial fund should be sent to the asso-
ciation’s treasurer, Mr. Walter E. Sachs,
60 Wall Street, New York.
CHRISTIAN VIRGINIA
vs.
VIRGINIA CHRISTIAN.
On August .1 we received a com-
munication from representatives of the
National Association of Colored Women,
which had just convened in Hampton, re-
questing that a lawyer be sent to Virginia to
investigate the case of a colored girl con-
demned to death August 16. It was impos-
sible for the association’s counsel to go, so
the secretary was sent instead.
Virginia Christian, a young colored girl
of Hampton, was accused by Mrs. Belote, for
whom she had washed for several years, of
stealing a skirt. She denied the charge, but
expressed her willingness to pay to the
amount of $5. She refused, however, to
return to Mrs. Belote’s to work. Mrs. Belote
sent her daughter for Virginia who was not
at home. Upon her return, her mother told
her Mrs. Belote wanted her to go at once
to her house, and persuaded the girl to do
so against her will.
From this point we have only Virginia's
story of the crime. She says Mrs. Belote
took her into a bedroom, closed the door and
again accused her of stealing the skirt,
threatening to have her sent to jail for six
months if she did not return it. Angered
at Virginia’s persistent denial of the charge.
Mrs. Belote threw a cuspidor at the girl,
hitting her on the shoulder and hurting her
so she was unable to raise her arm the next
day. The cuspidor fell and broke and then
Mrs. Belote began throwing the pieces of
broken crockery at Virginia. The girl by
this time was in a blind rage. Grabbing a
piece of broomstick from the window, she
si ruck Mrs. Belote over the forehead, felling
her instantly. Still infuriated, and also to
stop the woman’s screams, she thrust a towel
down her throat. She then crossed the room
to get her hat and stopped to pick up Mrs.
Belote's pocketbook. which lay on the floor
by the bureau. It contained several dollars
and a ring. The girl went home and busied
herself about the house, telling nothing of
the affair, because, in her own words, she
“was afraid.” When questioned as to
whether she thought the woman was dead,
she said “No," she never thought she would
die, she had not meant to kill her, she was
“just mad." She admitted that, although
Mrs. Belote was in front of the door, she was
such a small woman that she (Virginia)
could easily have left the house had she not
been scared and had the woman's attack not
angered her. She further said they were
238
THE CRISIS
alone in the house. The woman’s body was
not discovered for some hours. Later, when
the officers came to Virginia’s squalid home,
they found her busy with household tasks.
When they told her she must go with them
she simply said: “May I wash my hands?”
Feeling in Hampton ran high. Many
people think a lynching was barely averted.
The case was tried two weeks after the
murder, while there was still great excite-
ment. This, together with the girl’s uncouth
appearance and her rude way of telling of
her deed, decided her counsel, two colored
lawyers, not to put her on the stand. The
difficulties of the case were gTeatly increased
by the girl’s utter ignorance. She permitted
herself to be questioned and weighed before
she had counsel, and after being sentenced
confessed to a colored minister in the pres-
ence of newspaper men, without the knowl-
edge of her lawyers. Space forbids a recital
of the legal history of the case. Two re-
prieves were secured. When the last one
of two weeks was granted, in order to enable
the girl’s counsel to produce new evidence,
they wrote the Governor that they had given
up the case. It was at this point, August
5, eleven days before the date set for execu-
tion, that the association’s representative
arrived in Hampton.
After careful investigation of the facts,
the clear grounds for executive clemency
seemed to lie in the girl's youth, her
wretched environment, her dubious mental
responsibility, and the fact that many people,
both white and colored, believe the murder
was not premeditated. That the girl's attor-
neys, friends and the ministers to whom she
confessed believe her to be without morals and
a thief should have helped rather than pre-
judiced her case, particularly with anyone
who had seen her and the miserable sur-
roundings in which she had grown up. Tier
mother, an untruthful and dishonest woman,
became paralyzed three years ago, when
Virginia had to interrupt her slight schooling
to help eke out the family’s living. There
are eight children—one is married and one
beside Virginia is old enough to work. The
father, j an industrious hard-working man,
who walks four miles daily to save carfare,
has $1.25 a day on which to support his
family. Still he had managed to save
several hundred dollars through a building
and loan association to pay for his house,
all of which had to go to the lawyers whom
he asked to defend his child.
In addition to the efforts made in Rich-
mond and Hampton to influence the Governor
in the girl’s favor, many letters were sent
him by members of the National Association,
including some of the most representative
lawyers in the country. He steadfastly re-
fused to be shaken in his view that the crime
was premeditated, saying that he believed the
girl went to the house with the express pur-
pose of stealing the pocketbook. Later he
seems to have wavered on this point. He also.
insisted she was at least nineteen, basing his
opinion upon medical examination. Some oi
the arguments he advanced were entirely out-
side the evidence on which the case was
judged and so could not justly be taken into
consideration. In a letter to one of our
members Governor Mann says that Mrs.
Belote was “seventy years old” and a press
dispatch makes her seventy-two. The sworn
testimony of Mrs. Belote’s married daughter
is that her mother was “fifty-one years of
age.”
An effort was made to show him that the
premeditation theor}r was weak, since per-
sons premeditating violence do not have to
be persuaded to go to the house of the in-
tended victim. Even the most ghastly feature
of the crime, the forcing of the towel down
the victim’s throat over live inches, could
have been explained by an act of brutal
strength in a moment of mad passion. The
prosecution, however, claimed through medi-
cal opinion that this towel was forced down
with the window stick, and must have taken
sufficient time to constitute premeditation,
which under the Virginia law need only be
of a few minutes’ duration. On this point
the girl’s denial was not shaken, and her
story is believed by most of the colored peo-
ple and by a large number of white people.
Moreover, it must be remembered, Virginia
did not take the stick wfltli her to the victim’s
house, but seized it in a paroxysm of rage
after being attacked. In the absence of vital
statistics, the evidence as to the girl’s age
depends on her parents’ assertion, the testi-
mony of neighbors, and particularly the
records of the Whittier School connected
with Hampton Institute, where the girl was
entered as born August 15, 1895.'
After careful examination of the facts and
an interview with the prisoner, the associa-
tion’s representative decided that an effort
should be made to save this girl’s life on
the ground of her age, lack of premeditation,
doubt as to moral responsibility, and because
i
THE N. A. A. C. P.
239
of the increasing general belief that it is a
disgrace to civilization for any modern State
to put to death a mental child, whatever her
color or race, when that child has been the
product of adverse conditions for which
society is to blame. It was Christian Vir-
ginia against Virginia Christian—a Christian
Virginia which does not even provide a
reformatory for colored girl delinquents.
After failing to get the sentence commuted
an attempt was made to secure a further re-
prieve in order to gain time to have the case
reconsidered. The most eminent criminal
lawyers in the State were consulted, but they
all refused to touch the matter, alleging as
their reasons that they had been called in
too late, and that the defense did not now
have a case. They said they could not con-
sider undertaking a case for the association
which they would be sure to lose. Some of
them admitted, however, that they uid no:
believe it premeditated murder and that it
was a crying shame that the great State of
5 irginia had no reformatory for colored
girls.
Public sentiment, which was absolutely
necessary, if anything was to be accom-
plished for the girl, had been colored by an
unfriendly press. The political situation
also made it impossible just now to crystal-
lize favorable opinion. White and colored
people of prominence were willing to express
themselves as individuals, even personally to
write the Governor for clemency, but posi-
tively refused to he quoted or to permit their
names to be used.
Virginia Christian is a sacrifice to society.
From the unfortunate girl’s tragedy the
great commonwealth, whose name by a bitter
irony of fate she bears, should read its lesson.
Why has not Virginia a reformatory for
colored girls ? Why has it not a law for-
bidding the execution of children of sixteen?
How many more legalized murders must be
committed before civilization receives an
answer to these questions and grapples with
those social conditions which produce Vir-
ginia Christians in a race which obtains
neither justice nor fair play in so many
States of this Union?
HISTORIC DAYS IN SEPTEMBER
2.	James Forten, abolitionist and friend
of William Lloyd Garrison, born, 17GG.
3.	Frederick Douglass escaped from
slavery, 1S3S.
4.	William E. Dodge, friend of Negro
education, born, 1S05.
7. Fort Wagner evacuated by Confed-
erates. 1S63.
9.	Compromise of 1S50 became a law.
10.	Convention in Alabama to abolish
slavery. 1S65.
11.	Henry G. Bowen, founder of The
Independent, born, 1S13.
1*2. Samuel J. Mav, abolitionist, born,
1797.
13. Texas passed decree against slave
trade. 1S27.
17. Dred Scott died, 1S5S.
*3 A colored man of Sumter, S. C.. bor-
rowed So from a loan agent and gave in
return an $S mortgage on a cow. He then
paid in all $7.35, but the loan agent
demanded $5.15 in addition with interest,
and finally seized the cow under the mort-
is. Second fugitive slave act passed.
1S50.
19.	Bishop Gilbert Haven, humanitarian,
born, 1S21.
21.	General Andrew Jacksou issued proc-
lamation to colored men of Louisiana. 1S14.
22.	Abraham Lincoln issued notice of
intention to proclaim emancipation. Janu-
ary 1. 1S(33, unless rebellion ceased before
that date, 1S62.
23.	Fifty-fourth Massachusetts Regiment
mustered out, 1SG5.
27. First Louisiana Native Guards mus-
tered in. 1SG2.
2S. David Walker born, 17S5. His
“Appeal" against slavery issued. 1S29.
29. Battle of New Market Heights, 1SG4.
L. M. Hershaw.
gage. The case was brought to court and
false entries in the books of the agent were
proven. Finally a verdict was brought iu
for the colored man. who was given posses-
sion of the cow and damages amounting to
$15.
GARRISON AND WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE
By FANNY GARRISON VILLARD
HE invitation given me to
contribute au article to the
Woman Suffrage Number
of The Crisis, and in it
refer to the part that my
father, William Lloyd Gar-
rison played in the move-
ment, brings to mind the fact that there
are many people who are ignorant of
the close relation that existed between the
anti-slavery agitation and the one for
“woman’s rights,” in both of which my
father bore his share of the burdens. The
very first lesson that I learned was one of
sympathy for the poor little slave child who
was torn away from its mother’s arms, and
the second was the need of the help of
women in the struggle to free the cruelly
oppressed colored people from bondage.
At that time custom did not permit women
to address audiences of both men and
women; the only exception being that of the
Society of Friends. Thus, when two women
who had an intimate knowledge of the hor-
rors of slavery desired to speak in churches,
in order to reach a larger number of people
and win adherents to the abolition cause,
they were sternly rebuked for their temerity.
These women were Sarah and Angelina
Grimke, daughters of a distinguished judge
of Charleston, S. C., both remarkably gifted
speakers and able writers on this all-absorb-
ing topic. Thereupon, the General Associa-
tion of Massachusetts, having the Orthodox
Congregational Churches under its care,
issued in July, 1S37, a pastoral letter. Its
aim was to close the doors of churches to
anti-slavery lecturers, and to diminish the
audiences of the Grimke sisters, who during
the month of June had aroused intense in-
terest in Eastern Massachusetts by their
eloquent appeals on behalf of the slaves.
Attention was called to dangers now seeming
“to threaten the female character with wide-
spread and permanent injury.” The New
Testament clearly defines “the appropriate
duties and influences of women.” “The
power of woman is in her dependence.
*	*	* When she assumes the place and
tone of man as a public reformer our care
and protection of her seem unnecessary; we
put ourselves in self-defense against her; she
yields the power which God has given for
her protection and her character becomes
unnatural.” The conduct of those, the letter
continued, is sadly mistaken “who encourage
females to bear an obstrusive and ostenta-
tious part in measures of reform, and conn-
A WOMAN’S SUFFRAGE SYMPOSIUM
241
tenance any of that sex who so far forget
themselves as to itinerate in the character of
public lecturers and preachers.”
The Grimke sisters then asked for per-
mission to speak on the anti-slavery platform
and were warmly welcomed by my father,
who said that he owed a greater duty to
women who were half the human race than
lie did to the slaves who were, happily, only
a small part of it. and that he must be true
to both. Some of the few adherents he had
won left him, saying that he could free the
slaves alone if he intended to allow women
to speak at anti-slavery meetings.
Miss Catherine Beecher's newly published
“ Essay on Slavery
and Abolitionism, with
Keforence to the Duty
of American Females.*’
addressed to Miss
A. E. Grimke. was
really the beginning
of the woman’s rights
agitation in America.
Sarah Grimke said in
a letter to II. C.
Wright: “The Lord
has very un-
expectedly made us
the means of bringing
up the discussion of
the question of wo-
man’s preaching and
all we have to do is
to do our duty.’’ An-
gelina Grimke’s force-
ful reply to Miss
Beecher was published
in thirteen articles in
the Liberator. My
father said: “Are we
enough to make a
revolution? No, but we are enough to begin
one. and once begun it never can be turned
back.*’ This seems peculiarly applicable in
the case of these devoted sisters.
He had an opportunity presented to him
in London in 3840 to serve the woman's
rights cause which he did not fail to embrace.
He had journeyed there for the express pur-
pose of attending a world’s anti-slavery
convention, which met on Friday, June 12,
with about 500 delegates. His sliip had
been delayed by fog and adverse gales, and
he arrived five days too late. The conven-
tion had but three days more to sit, and
having learned that his women codelegates
MRS. FANNY
sent by the Massachusetts and Pennsylvania
Anti-slavery Societies were denied admission
to it because of their sex, my father took his
seat with them in the gallery and refused
to take part in the proceedings in order to
do so.
He was in the company of such women as
Harriet Martineau, Mrs. Wendell Phillips,
Mrs. Maria Weston Chapman, Mrs. Lydia
Maria Child, Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton,
Miss Abbv Kelley, afterward Mrs. Stephen
Foster. Miss Emily Winslow, Miss Abby
Southwick. Mrs. Lucretia Mott, and still
others: certainly with his peers. This act,
says K. P. Rogers, was decisive in its effect,
“Haman never looked
more blank on seeing
Mordecai sitiing in the
king's gate with his hat
on than did this ‘com-
mittee in conference’
on seeing us take the
position we did. Gar-
rison was besought to
come down. They tried
even.’ means in their
power to seduce him
down. Every time he
was mentioned that
whole conference
would, applaud as if
they thought they
could clap him dowu.
•	•	• But they
might as well have
expected to remove the
pillars upon which the
gallery stood.*’ It was.
indeed, a singular
world’s convention
from which the leader
GARRISON VILLARD	q£ lhe	test auti-
slavery movement of the age had to abstain
from taking part in order to vindicate the
principle of human equality. By so doing
lie called attention in a remarkable way to
the disabilities under which women labored
even when devoting themselves to so noble
a cause as that of the aboltion of slavery—
and the convention marks an important era
in the woman question rather than that of
abolition.
It will ever be instructive aud interesting
to dwell upon the steady progress of the
woman’s cause, in spite of deep-seated preju-
dice. ridicule and ostracism. Deuiocraev
itself is but a name where women have no
242
THE CRISIS
part in it. Can it be that it is expedient
to shut out from its benefits any part of the
human race? Most assuredly not. Negro
women need the franchise, all foreign women
need it, and no one of us can afford to
be deprived of it any more than men. What
more forcibly points the moral of the im-
perative necessity of the franchise for each
and every human being than the heartbreak-
ing conditions existing to-day in the South
among the oppressed colored people?
Largely deprived, as they are, of the fran-
chise in the South, who cares for their rights?
In truth, they can only be safeguarded when
the ballot is theirs; without it they are
helpless.
In conclusion, let me again quote my
father’s words: “The people may err—they
often do; they may be badly deceived—they
often are; but the people as such are never
wilfully deceived, nor are they hostile to
their own interests. They may be deceived,
but they will by and by understand the de-
ceptions and deal with the deceivers; but you
cannot possibly have a broader basis for any
government than that which includes all the
people, with all their rights in their hands,
and with an equal power to maintain their
rights.”
COLORED WOMEN AS VOTERS
By ADELLA
ORE and more colored womeu
are studying public ques-
tions and civics. As they
gain information and have
experience' in their daily
vocations and in their ef-
forts for human betterment
they are convinced, as many other women
have long ago been convinced, that their
efforts would be more telling if women had
the vote.
The fashion of saying “I do not care
MISS IDA R. CUMMINGS
(See page 223.)
HUNT LOGAN
to meddle with politics” is disappearing
among the colored woman faster than most
people think, for this same woman has
learned that politics meddle constantly with
her and hers.
Good women try always to do good house-
keeping. Building inspectors, sanitary in-
spectors and food inspectors owe their
positions to polities. Who then is so well
informed as to how these inspectors perform
their duties as the women who.live in in-
spected districts and in inspected houses, and
who buy food from inspected markets?
Adequate school facilities in city, village
and plantation districts greatly concern the
black mother. But without a vote she has
no voice in educational legislation, and no
power to see that her children secure their
share of public-school funds.
Negro parents admit that their own chil-
dren are not all angels, but they know that
the environments which they are helpless to
regulate increase misdemeanor and crime.
They know, too, that officers, as a rule, recog-
nize few obligations to voteless citizens.
When colored juvenile delinquents” are
arraigned, few judges or juries feel bound to
give them the clemenc\v due a neglected class.
When sentence is pronounced on these mis-
chievous youngsters, too often they are
imprisoned with adult criminals and come
out hardened and not helped by their pun-
ishment. When colored mothers ask for a
reform school for a long time they receive
no answer. They must wait while they
besiege their legislature. Having no vote
they need not be feared or heeded. The
A WOMAN’S SUFFRAGE SYMPOSIUM
243
"right of petition*’ is good; but it is much
better when well voted in.
Not only is the colored woman awake to
reforms that may be hastened by good legis-
lation and wise administration, but where
she has the ballot she is reported as using it
for the uplift of society and for the advance-
ment of the State.
In California the colored woman bore her
part creditably in the campaign for equal
suffrage and also with commendable patriot-
ism in the recent presidential nomination
campaign.
The State of Washington, new with
its votes-for-womeu law. has already had a
colored woman juror. Why not? She is
educated and wealthy and wants to protect
the best interests in her State.
Colorado has never had better school offi-
cials than her women have made. Judge
Ben. Lindsey is as popular with colored
women voters as he is with white women
voters. The juvenile court over which he
presides gives the boy a square deal regard-
less of color. A majority of mothers and
fathers can be counted on every time to sup-
port such an official.
Wyoming. Utah and Idaho, the other full
suffrage States, have few colored women, but
these few are not hurt by. but are being
helped by. their voting privileges.
In the States that are now conducting
woman suffrage campaigns the colored
woman is as interested and probably as
active as conditions warrant. This is notably
true of Ohio and Kansas.
A number of colored women are active
members of the National Woman Suffrage
Association. They are well informed and
are diligent in the spread of propaganda.
Women who see that they need the vote see
also that the vote needs them. Colored
women feel keeuly that they may help in
civic betterment, and that their broadened
interests in matters of good government may
arouse the colored brother, who for ^various
reasons has become too indifferent to his
duties of citizenship.
The suffrage map shows that six States
have equal political rights for women and
men, and that a much larger number have
granted partial suffrage to women. In all
these the colored woman is taking part, nor
as fully as she will when the questiou is
less of an experiment, not as heartily as she
will when her horizon broadens, bur she bears
her part.
This much, however, is true now: the
colored American believes in equal justice
to all. regardless of race, color, creed or
sex. and longs for the day when the United
Stares shall indeed have a government of
the people, for the people and by the
people—even including the colored people.
The JUSTICE OF WOMAN SUFFRAGE
By MARY CHURCH TERRELL
T is difficult to believe that
any individual in the United
States with one drop of
African blood in his veins
can oppose woman suffrage.
It is queer and curious
enough to hear an intelli-
gent colored woman argue against granting
suffrage to her sex. but for an intelligent
colored man to oppose woman suffrage is
the most preposterous and ridiculous thing
in the world. What could be more absurd
than to see one group of human beings who
are denied rights which they are trying to
secure for themselves working to prevent
another group from obtaining the same
rights? • For the very arguments which are
advanced against granting the right of suf-
frage to women are offered by those who
have disfranchised colored men.
If I were a colored man. and were unfor-
tunate enough not to grasp the absurdity of
opposing suffrage because of the sex of a
human being. 1 should at least be consistent
enough never to raise my voice against those
who have disfranchised my brothers and my-
self on account of race. However, the intelli-
gent colored man who opposes woman suffrage
is very rare, indeed. While on a lecture tour
recently I frequently discussed woman suf-
frage with the leading citizens in the com-
munities in which 1 spoke. It was very
gratifying, indeed, to see that in the majority
of instances these men stood right on the
question of woman suffrage.
Frederick Douglass did many tilings of
which I am proud, but there is nothing he
ever did in his long and brilliant career in
which I take keener pleasure and greater
pride than I do in his ardent advoeaev of
244
THE CRISIS
equal political rights for women, and the
effective service he rendered the cause of
woman suffrage sixty years ago. When the
resolution demanding equal political rights
for women was introduced in the meeting
held at Seneca Falls, N. Y., in 1S4S, Fred-
erick Douglass was the only man in the
convention courageous and broad minded
enough to second the motion. It was largely
due to Douglass’s masterful arguments and
matchless eloquence that the motion was
carried, in spite of the opposition of its
very distinguished and powerful foes. In
his autobiography Douglass says: “Observ-
MISS ELIZABETH L. DAVIS
(Set page 223.)
ing woman’s agency, devotion and eiliciency,
gratitude for this high service early moved
me to give favorable attention to the subject
of what is called ‘woman’s rights’ and caused
me to be denominated a woman’s rights
man. I am glad to say,” he adds, “that I
have never been ashamed to be thus desig-
nated. I have been convinced of the wisdom
of woman suffrage and I have never denied
the faith.”
To assign reasons in this day and time
to prove that it is unjust to withhold from
one-half of the human race rights and privi-
leges freely accorded the other half, which
is neither more deserving nor more capable
of exercising them, seems almost like a
reflection upon the intelligence of those to
whom they are presented. To argue the
inalienability and the equality of human
rights in the twentieth century in a country
whose government was founded upon the
eternal principles that all men are created
free and equal, that governments get their
just powers from the consent of the gov-
erned, seems like laying one’s self open to
the charge of anachronism. For 2,000 years
mankind has been breaking down the various
barriers which interposed themselves between
human beings and their perfect freedom to
exercise all the faculties with which they
have been divinely endowed. Even in mon-
archies old fetters, which formerly restricted
freedom, dwarfed the intellect and doomed
certain individuals to narrow, circumscribed
spheres because of the mere accident of
birth, are being loosed and broken one by
one.
What a reproach it is to a government
which owes its very existence to the loved
freedom in the human heart that it should
deprive any of its citizens of their sacred
and cherished rights. The founders of this
republic called heaven and earth to witness
that it should he called a government of the
people, for the people and by the people;
and yet the elective franchise is withheld
from one-half of its citizens, many of whom
are intelligent, virtuous and cultured, and
unstinlingly bestowed upon the other half,
many of whom are illiterate, degraded and
vicious, because by an unparalleled exhibi-
tion of lexicographical acrobatics the word
“people” has been turned and twisted to
mean all who were shrewd and wise enough
to have themselves horn hoys instead of
girls, and white instead of black.
But why grant women the suffrage when
the majority do not want it, the remonstrants
sometimes ask with innocent engaging
seriousness. Simply because there are many
people, men as well as women, who are so
constructed as to he unable to ascertain by
any process of reason what is the best thing
for them to have or to do. Until the path
is blazed by the pioneer, even some people
who have superior intellects and moral cour-
age dare not forge ahead. On the same
principle and for just exactly the same
reason that American women would reject
A WOMAN’S SUFFRAGE SYMPOSIUM
245
suffrage, Chinese women, if they dared to
express any opinion at all, would object to
having the feet of their baby girls removed
from the bandages which stunt their growth.
East Indian women would scorn the pro-
ferred freedom of their American sisters as
unnatural and vulgar and would die rather
than have their harems abolished. Slaves
sometimes prefer to bear the ills of bondage
rather than accept the blessings of freedom,
because their poor beclouded brains have
been stunted and dwarfed by oppression so
long that they cannot comprehend what
liberty means and have no desire to enjoy ir.
TWO SUFFRAGE MOVEMENTS
By MARTHA GRUENING
HE woman suffrage movement
in England and America
really dates from the be-
ginning of the anti-slavery
struggle. It was not only
contemporaneous with it,
but it owes its existence in
a large measure to this phase of the struggle
for human rights. For it was in the aboli-
tionist ranks that the early suffragists re-
ceived their training, both as thinkers and
propagandists. It was impossible for them
to agitate continually for the freedom of the
Negro without desiring freedom for them-
selves, or realizing the parallel between his
situation and their own. For if the Negro
was a slave the married woman of that day
was no less a chattel. She was no longer
openly bought and sold.* but she had no
more than he, a separate legal existence. If
the Negro slave belonged to his master, she
belonged no less, absolutely, to her husband
as did her property, her earnings, and even
her children. Both were disfranchised. Both
were deprived of education and subject to
economic disabilities which they shared with
no other class. Even the constitutional right
of free speech was not extended to woman
when it meant public speech, as she found
when she wished to join in the protest against
slavery; and even among the abolitionists her
presence on platforms and committees caused
serious dissensions.
The most striking instance of this was
offered at the World’s Anti-slavery Conven-
tion held in London in 1S-10, when the
credentials of the American women delegates
were refused for no other reason than that
they were women. They were, indeed, al-
lowed to be present, but not to have any part
in the proceedings. With this they had to
be content, as their fellow delegates appar-
ently were, the only exceptions being William
Lloyd Garrison and Nathaniel Rogers, the
*Thc mi to of wives was a legal transaction in
England well into the nineteenth century.
editor of the Herald of Freedom. Of all
the men present these two alone seemed to
realize that a principle was at stake, and
rather than compromise on a point they felt
to be viral they resigned their seats in the
convention, remaining merely as spectators
in the gallery.
This was one of many bitter experiences
that taught women the lesson of their own
impotence. To many of those rejected dele-
gates. among them Lucretia Mott and Eliza-
beth Cady Stanton, it brought an overwhelm-
ing realization that they were still something
less than human in the minds of most men
and a conviction that their rirst duty was
to free themselves from the artificial re-
straints imposed on them because of their
sex: that then and then only they could
work with men as equals. In these two
women, at least, the action ot the convention
kindled a profound resolve to work toward
this end. resulting in an agitation which
culminated in the womens rights convention
of 1S4S and its now famous "declaration of
rights.” This convention held at Seneca
Falls, N. Y„ and attended by about 100
men and women, was denounced by the press
of that date as "the most unnatural and
shocking incident in th^ history of human-
ity.” while the declaration excited almost
universal derision. This document stated the
belief of its framers in the equality of men
and women and demanded for women edu-
cation. the liberty of entering all trades and
professions, the right to appear in public,
the right to “work with men in any good
cause.” reminiscent of the anti-slavery
convention, and. finally, the ballot.
It is significant that of all the resolutions
offered at this convention this one alone was
not unanimously adopted. It was tiuallv
carried by a small majority, but throughout
the discussion only two of those present.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Frederick
Douglass, warmly favored it. Tliev alone at
this stage seem to have grasped the fact
246
THE CRISIS
that all rights and privileges go back to this
most fundamental right. Throughout the
storm of ridicule and abuse which broke out
after the convention Douglass maintained his
position and brilliantly defended the con-
vention in his paper, The North Star.
The early history of the suffrage movement
abounds with like incidents showing the help
given to the cause by colored people. Per-
haps none is more striking than the story of
Sojourner Truth at the Akron convention,
quoted from the “Reminiscences of Mrs.
Frances D. Gage”:
“The second day the work waxed warm.
Methodist, Baptist, Episcopal, Presbyterian
SOJOURNER TRUTH
and Universalist ministers came in to hear
and discuss the resolutions presented. One
claimed superior rights and privileges for
man, on the ground of ‘superior intellect;’
another because of the ‘manhood of Christ;’
another gave us a theological view of the
‘sin of our first mother/ Through all these
sessions Sojourner Truth, quiet and reticent,
sat crouched against the wall, on the corner
of the pulpit stairs, her elbows on her knees,
her chin resting on her broad, hard palms.
Again and again, timorous and trembling
ones came to me and said with earnestness:
‘Don’t let her speak, Mrs. Gage, it will ruin
us.’ *	*	•
“There were very few in those days who
dared ‘speak in meeting,’ and the august
teachers of the people were seemingly getting
the better of us, while the boys in the gallery
and the sneerers in the pews were hugely
enjoying the discomfiture as they supposed
of the ‘strong minded.’ Some of the tender-
skinned friends were on the point of losing
dignity and the atmosphere betokened a
storm, when slowly from her seat in the
corner rose Sojourner Truth. ‘Don’t let
her speak,’ gasped half a dozen in my ear.
She moved slowly and solemnly to the front
and turned her great speaking eyes to me.
There was a hissing sound of disapproba-
tion, both above and below, as I announced
‘Sojourner Truth’ and begged the audience
to keep silence for a few minutes. At her
first words there was a profound hush. She
spoke in deep tones, not loud, but which
reached every ear in the house, and away
through the throng at the doors and
windows.
“ ‘Wall, chilern, wliar dar is so much racket
dar must be somethin’ out o’ kilter. 1
reckon dat ’twixt de Niggers in de Souf and
de women in de Norf, de white men will be
in a fix pretty soon. But what’s all dis
here talkin’ about?
“ ‘Dat man ober dar say dat women needs
to be helped into carriages, and lifted ober
ditches, and to hab de best place everywhar.
Nobody eber helps me into carriages or
ober mud puddles, or gibs me de best place!
And ain’t I a woman? Look at me! Look
at ray arm’ (and she bared her tremendous
arm showing her great muscular power). *1
have ploughed,*I have planted and gathered
into barns and noone could head me—and
ain’t I a woman? I could work as much
and eat as much as a man—when I could
get it—and bear de lash as well, and ain’t 1
a woman? I have borne thirteen chilern
and seen most of dem sold off; into slavery,
and when I cried out in my mother’s grief,
none but Jesus heard me; and ain’t I a
woman ?
“ ‘Den dey talks ’bout dis ting in de head.
What dey call it?’ (‘Intellect,’ someone whis-
pered.) ‘Dal’s it, honey. What’s dat got
to do with Nigger’s rights or women’s rights?
If ray cup won’t hold but a pint and yours
holds a quart, wouldn’t you be mean not to
let me have my little half measure full?’
(And she sent a keen glance at the minister
who made the argument. The cheering was
long and loud.)
A WOMAN’S SUFFRAGE SYMPOSIUM
247
‘Den dat man ober dar, lie say women
can’t have as much right as men ’cause Christ
wan’t a woman! Whar did your Christ
come from?’ (Rolling thunder couldn’t have
stilled the crowd as did those deep wonderful
tones as she stood with outstretched arms
and eyes of fire.) ‘Whar did your Christ
come from? From God and a woman. Man
had nothin’ to do with him!’ What a rebuke
that was to the little man!
"Lastly she took up the defense of Mother
Eve. eliciting almost deafening applause at
every word, and finally returned to her
comer, leaving many of us with streaming
eyes and hearts beating with gratitude. She
had taken us up in her strong arms and
carried us safely over the slough of diffi-
culty. turning the whole tide in our favor.
I have never seen anything like the magical
influence which turned the sneers and jeers
of an excited crowd into notes of respect
and admiration.”
If such incidents have been less frequent
in recent years it is not because the profound
and close connection between the Negro and
women movements no longer exists. The
parallel between their respective situations is
as clear to-day as it was in 1S4S. but it is
too frequently ignored by the reformers on
both sides. Both have made some progress
toward complete emancipation, the gains of
women in the direction of enfranchisement
being seemingly the more lasting. Both,
however, are still very largely disfranchised,
and subject to those peculiar educational,
legal and economic discriminations that are
the natural results of disfranchisement. And
finally, both are being brought with every
onward step nearer to the identical temptation
—to sacrifice the principle of true democ-
racy to the winning of a single skirmish. So
when one sees a national body of suffra-
gists refusing to pass a universal suffrage
resolution, one is compelled to wonder at the
logic of those who, knowing so well what
disfranchisement means, would allow it to
be inflicted on others. “Let us not confuse
the issue,” these suffragists plead, some in
good faith. Yet the confusion, if any, exists
only in their minds. Here are not two
distinct issues at stake, but merely the vital
principle of democracy. Others insist that
the granting of the ballot to women must
precede all other reforms because “women
have waited long enough” and recall the
fact that women were forced to stand aside
and see Negro men enfranchised at the close
of the Civil War. This is undoubtedly true
and was quite justly a source of bitter dis-
appointment to the suffrage leaders of that
day—a disappointment we should not under-
estimate—but merely to reverse the princi-
pals in an unjust occurrence is not to work
justice. It is strange to see so many suf-
fragists who point with pride to the actiou
of Garrison in withdrawing from the anti-
slavery convention, blind to the larger sig-
nificance of that action. Stranger still to
see them following, not Garrison’s lead, but
that of the convention in their attitude
toward colored people, and forgetting that
no cause is great to the exclusion of every
other. This Robert Purvis, a noted colored
leader, understood, as is shown by his noble
reply to the suffragists’ appeal: **I cannot
agree that this or any hour is specially the
Negro’s. 1 am an anti-slavery man. With
what grace could I ask the women of this
country to labor for my enfranchisement and
at the same time be unwilling to put forth a
hand to remove the tyranny in some respects
greater to whieh they are exposed?” This
is what all suffragists must understand, what-
ever their sex or color—that all the dis-
franchised of the earth have a common
cause.
BROTHER BAPTIS' ON WOMAN SUFFRAGE
By ROSALIE JONAS
When hit come ter de question er de female
vote,
De ladies an' de cullud folks is in de same
boat.
Ef de Boss feelin ’ good, an ’ we eats out his
han’,
We kin shout fur freedom, an’ foller de ban’.
We kin play at freedom, so long’s we play.
But ef we gits thinkin’, an’ comes out an’ say:1
Case one’s borned a female, an ’ one’s horned
black,
Is dat any reason fur sottin* way back?
Is dat any reason fur sottin’ da-put?
You kiu betcher bottom dollar dat de Boss’s
lut
Gwine ter sprout big claws, till dey comes
clar thoo.
An’ he elimps hit heavy ou bofe us two.
Case de tears er de mudder, nur de sigu. er de
cross.
Ain’t shame all de debbil vit, outen de Boss!
COLORED	MEN AND	WOMEN	LYNCHED
	WITHOUT	TRIAL.	
IS So			1899	84
1SS6			 71	1900			 107
1SS7			 SO	1901			 107
1SSS			 95	1902			 S6
1SS9			 95	1903			 S6
1S90			 90	1904			 S3
1891			 121	1905			 61
1892.			 155	1906			 64
1S93			 154	1907			 60
1894			 134	190S			 93
1895			1909			 73
1896			 80	1910		
1897			 122	1911			 63
1898..	102		
Total. ..			
AUTO-DA-FE IN TYLER, TEXAS.
r J 1 HERE was some disappointment in the
crowd and criticism of those who had
bossed the arrangements because the fire was
so slow in reaching the Negro. It was really
only ten minutes after the fire was started be-
fore smoking shoe soles and a twitching of the
Negro’s feet indicated that his lower extremi-
ties were burning, but the time seemed much
longer. The spectators had waited so long
to see him tortured that they begrudged the
ten minutes additional before his suffering
really began.
The Negro had uttered but few words.
When he was led to where he was to be
burned he said quite calmly: “I wish some
of you gentlemen would be Christian enough
to cut my throat,” but nobody responded.
When the fire was started he screamed:
‘•Lord, have mercy on my soul,” and that
was the last he spoke, though he was con-
scious for fully twenty minutes after that!
His exhibition of nerve aroused the admira-
tion even of his torturers.
A slight hitch in the proceedings occurred
when the Negro was about half burned.
His clothing had all been stripped off and
burned to ashes by the flames, and his black
body hung nude in the gray dawn light. The
flesh had been burned from his legs as high
as the knees when it was seen that the wood
supply was running short.
There was a call for volunteers to go
after more wood, but there were no re-
sponses. None of the men or boys were
willing to miss an incident of the torture.
All feared something of more than usual
interest might happen, and it would be em-
barrassing to admit later on not having seen
it on account of being absent after more
wood.
Something had to be done, however, and
a few men from the edge of the crowd ran
after more dry-goods boxes, and by reason
of this “public service” gained standing room
in the inner circle after having delivered the
fuel. Meanwhile, the crowd jeered the dying
man and uttered shocking comments sug-
gestive of a cannibalistic spirit. Some danced
and sang to testify to their enjoyment of the
occasion.
[Special correspondence of the St. Loui*
Post-Dispatch.]
THE SCAPEGOAT.
Mobile, Ala., June 19.—Tom Jackson, a
Negro, seventy years old. who shot and
killed Deputy-Sheriff C’oate, of Clarke
County, was taken by masked men from
Clarke County officers, near Jackson, Wed-
nesday morning, and has not been heard
from since.
Jackson was charged with the theft of a
goat. To arrest the Negro, Deputy Coate
went to Jackson’s house, five miles from
the town of Jackson, Tuesday night. As
Coate was forcing the door the Negro tired
and killed him.
Although mortally wounded, Coate shot
and seriously injured Jackson. The Negro
was also struck by another officer’s bullet,
but he crawled from his house into the gar-
den, and there lay all night. Otficers found
him Wednesday morning, but did not get to
the town of Jackson with him.
Conducted by JESSIE FAUSET
Wendell Phillips. The faith of an American.
B.v George Edward Woodberry. Printed
for the Woodberry Society, 1912.
The tribute which Mr. Woodberry pays in
this speech to Wendell Phillips is as beauti-
ful as it is sincere. But for us the chief
interest must lie in the expression of the
authors ideas on the old familiar “problem."
Here is a man who thinks and. thinking,
speaks. “I say nothing.*'* he declares, "of
the denial of Negro rights bv lynching.
That is a mere brutality. We are shamed in
the face of civilized nations as no other of
the group, except Russia, has been shamed
for centuries. *	*	* I note. too. the ex-
tension of lynching to white men and the
spread of the habit of burning Negroes to
Northern States. You cannot calmly watch
a hre in your neighbor’s house: it will leap
to your own roof. You cannot wink at
crime in your neighbor’s dooryard; it will
soon be in your own. The denial of Negro
rights by the nullification of the constitu-
tional amendments is a graver matter. I
have only this to say. that no student of
history can be surprised at a diminishing
respect for a Constitution that does not
maintain itself as the supreme law of the
land honestly abided by. Phillips stated the
true principle: ‘The proper time to main-
tain one's rights is when they are denied:
the proper persons to maintain them are
those to whom they are denied.' I devoutly
hope that the Negroes will so grow in man-
hood as to be their own saviours in the ful-
ness of time, as our own fathers long ago
wrenched from the hands of unwilling mas-
ters the rights that are now our dearest
possession." One has to think here of Mr.
Phillips' own remark: "Peace, if possible:
but justice at any rate."
Again listen to Mr. Woodberry: “It may
be that the Negroes, considered with a view
to their social utility, like all other masses
of men, are capable only of an economic
service. That is the main task of mankind.
But beware of closing the gates of mercy on
those young ambitions, those forward in-
stincts. the prayers and struggles of the
waking soul of a race! Give the Negroes a
true university—a white man s university.
The trials and discouragements of genius are
an old and sad story in our own annals.
Think what the burden must be that rests ou
Negro efforts."
The Negro at Work in New York City. A
study in economic progress. George
Edmund Haynes. Columbia University
Publications, 1912. Longmans. Green Jc
Co., agents.
This work affords us an exhaustive and
interesting account of the manner in which
colored citizens earn their living in New
York. Incidentally one learns a great deal
also of their sanitation and morality. There
are many references and diagrams and a
summary. In this summary is to be found
the creed of the whole "Negro Problem.’*
The passage reads as follows:
“The problem of the Negro as an urban
dweller is made more acute because he has
greater handicap due to his previous condi-
tion of servitude and to the prejudiced
opposition of the white world that surrounds
him. His health, intelligence and morals re-
spond to treatment similar to that of other
denizens of the city, if only impartial treat-
ment can be secured. Doubtless, death rate
and crime rate have been and are greater
than the corresponding rates for the white
populations of the same localities, for both
crime and disease are a reflection of the
urban environments and are solvable by
methods similar to those used to remedy such
conditions among whites if prejudiced pre-
suppositions. which conclude without expe-
riment or inquiries that Negroes have in-
nately bad tendencies, give place to open-
minded trial and unbiased reason. Snapshot.
250
THE
CRISIS
opinions should be avoided in such serious
questions, and statesmen, philanthropists and
race leaders should study the facts carefully
and act accordingly.”
©
The Black Pawn. By Xorman Duncan. Har-
per's for July. 1912.
Once in a rare while some one points out
that the wrong done the black man by
slavery was not only physical and material,
but something much more subtle and far
reaching. It is this which Mr. Duncan with
far more insight than is usually accorded
the Negro points out when he writes:
“Billy Brown had been bullied for a long
time. He yielded to the ancient compulsion.
It was the same as it had always been. His
spirit had been broken before he was born.**
“His spirit had been broken”—there it is—
the spiritual hurt, the maiming of the essen-
tial quality of manliness—the accursed heri-
tage which the American Negro must ding
behind him.
LETTER BOX
Editor of The Crisis:
Your journal supplies a long-felt want.
You must continue to publish the truth of
the brutal American condition, and the more
of the horrors you describe the greater use-
fulness you will accomplish. Your paper
each mouth can never become as bitter as
are the daily humiliations of millions of your
oppressed, suffering race. The pictures of
lynehings which you put on your pages are
inadequate to tell the fiendish stories of bar-
barities which our own eyes have seen in the
Southland. About ten years ago in a South-
ern State we saw the officers arrest seven
black boys, in ages from 14 to 22 years, and
put them in an old storehouse to await a
hearing the next day. The magistrate said
they would be committed to jail the follow-
ing day if they were living. That night six
of them were strung to a lone oak, their
bodies mutilated and the clothing on their
bodies saturated with oil and burned. They
were buried under the oak in one large hole.
No one was ever arrested for the crime.
Your list of the lynched is not as big as
it might be. We believe you have not half
the number.	A Subscriber,
New York.
m
Dear Sir:
I feel more or less at liberty to make a
comment regarding The Crisis, since for
many years I have been deeply interested,
and have done many things for the advance-
ment of the Negro race in America.
For several months I have been a sub-
scriber to your magazine, have looked it
over carefully each issue, and put it into
the hands of my maid as an interesting thing,
perhaps, for her to read in a leisure hour.
And I have watched its effect, which has not
been a good one.
Now I want to say this, and from the bot-
tom of my heart j you are making a grave
mistake in pointing out the woes of the
NegTo race which are no greater—if as great
—as the woes of the white man. Besides, to
point them out is not the way to remedy the
evil that exists, if evil there does exist.
A Southern” White Woman.
S
More of The Crisis are sold to Hindoos.
Japanese and whites than to colored people.
Dora Gulliford,
Vancouver. B. C.
m
I read The Crisis from cover to cover and
eagerly look for it each month.
William Stevenson,
Cincinnati, 0.
Everywhere I have been I hear the highest
praise for The Crisis. Everyone feels that
at last we have the kind of race paper which
has long been needed.
E.	Azalia Hackley.
Jacksonville, Fla.
g
This month’s edition of The Crisis is a
**gem.” I read with inspiration and profit
every word of it last night. God bless you
in this work.	J. W. Barco,
Richmond, Ya.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
251
Publishers’ Chat
THE CHILDREN’S NUMBER
Little Girl looked up from her stewed beans:
“Will it have a children’s story?” she asked.
The Editor looked down at her.
“Really, I hadn’t planned----”
“But who ever heard of a Children’s Number without
a story for children?” persisted Little Girl.
“Why—to be sure,” surrendered the Editor.
So the Children’s Number in October will have a
children’s story to go with the baby faces.
By the way, we have some of the ’cutest baby faces
you ever saw.
Is your baby’s face there?
If not, rush the picture to us. We want it Besides
there’s a prize, you know.
COMING NUMBERS—The November number is
our second anniversary. Then will come the finest number
of the year for Christmas—together with a Richard Brown
cover.
SCHOOL TALK—In a few weeks schools all over
the country will begin to open. It is often quite a problem
for parents to decide wrhich school to select for their
children.
The curriculum, location and advantages of one school
may be suited to the disposition and previous training of pne
child while the same school would not be suitable for
another.
The schools advertised in The CRISIS are all reliable,
and w'hile the range of choice is limited the quality is
decidedly superior to any similar collection.
If you are perplexed with a last-minute decision
between two schools for your children or yourself, perhaps
we can help you out of your difficulty if you write us.
Our suggestions are FREE.
252
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
SCHOOL OF [BEAUTY CULTURE AND HAIR DRESSING
KELSEY’S
328 Lenox Avenue
Telephone Harlem 1896
126th Street, NEW YORK.
Manicuring, Shampooing, Hair Dressing, Marcel Wav-
ing, Facial and Body Massage, Hair Making, Chiropody,
etc., scientifically taught. Unlimited, practice in parlor
day and night. Pupils taught at home, if desirocL
Diplomas. Special Summer Course, $7.60 up. Send for
booklet. Mme. A. Cartor Kolsoy, Gon’l Intr.; Dr. Samuel
A. Kelsey, Chiropodist, President ahd Gen’l Manager.
GOOD COMMISSION PAID TO ORGANIZERS. JOIN NOW!		Too, Too!	Too, Too!	Too, Too
		SOMETHING NEW
		The Afro-American
		Order of Orioles
Wp HOME OFFICE: !	110Colfax Ave., South Bend, Ind.		With a Graduated Scale of Endowment
		For particulars write G. W. BLAND, H. S. P.
Good Talcum
Powder
is a hot weather
necessity. Your
choice of odors:
French Bouquet
Corylopsis
Carnation
Violet
Lilac
Pink Blossom
(Flesh Color)
Mailed postpaid for 16c.
por box. Agents wanted.
ALEXANDER
SPECIALTY CO.
494 Highland Ave.
Passaic, N. J.
’Phone 2877 Lenox
White Rose Working Girls* Home
217 East 86th Street
Bet. Second and Third Avenues
Pleasant temporary lodgings for working girls,
with privileges, at reasonable rates. The Home
solicits orders for working dreBses, aprons, etc.
Address:
MRS. FRANCES R. KEYSER, Supt.
Telephono 3253 Harlem
CARPET CLEANING
Cleaners and Renovators
For Particular People
New York Careful Cleaning Bureau
12 West 135th Street
We mako a specialty of cleaning and renovating
carpetB, rugs, portidrcs and upholstered furniture;
we also vacuum clean in the. home. We are not
the largest carpet cleaner in the warld, but abso-
lutely the most careful in every detail.
SHAMPOOING CARPETS AND RUGS OUR
SPECIALTY
WANTED—A copy of No. 29 (issued
June 16, 1906) of the “Moon,” a weekly
magazine published in Memphis, Tennessee.
A liberal price will be paid. Address:
THE CRISIS
JglgS BATHTUB
Costs littU, no plumbing, requires littlo wator.
Weight 1I> pounds, umt folds into smell roll.
Full lecgth baths, fu Utter (Lin (Id tube. Lasts fur
Write fur special events eflor in 4 description. Horn nigh
' Ai.Uir.s OU,Toledo, 0. Mfri. Turkish Hath Cabinets.
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
253
Another One of Those Decidedly
Smart Designs from Mme. Becks
6358
Mme. Becks, who is
regarded as an authority on
styles and fashions, has agreed
to design exclusive patterns
for The Crisis.
A real dressy street dress
for late summer and early
fall.
Can be made of chiffon,
serge, taffeta or broadcloth.
Material Required:
4 yards, 40 inches wide, or
6 yards, 36 inches wide.
3 yards of lace, 4 inches
wide.
Zl yard of net for yoke and
collar.
Zl yard ball fringe.
Zl dozen buttons.
Patterns are cut 36, 38 and
40 bust measure. Price, by
mail, 17 cents. Patterns cut
to measure, 30 cents.
Address:
Pattern Department, THE CRISIS
26 VESEY STREET
NEW YORK CITY
Mention The Crisis.
254
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
The Meeting Place of Business and Proficiency
A professional man advertised in The Crisis for a partner with capital. The
profession is one that offers little encouragement to colored men and yet he writes:
‘‘Kindly stop the advertisement in The Crisis, as my want
has been filled. Wo appreciate the very good results (from
The Crisis) and will forward check on the 15th. ’*
A large corporation advertised in The Crisis for a general manager with
capital. The wording of their advertisement eliminated all inquirers save those
with capital and experience. They write:
“We believe that one of the parties is really interested in
our proposition and will close with him in a few days. ’1
They “closed” with him and have since advertised for other high-grade help.
There is our story in a nutshell.
Those who require high-grade help should use our “Help Wanted” columns,
and those who are trained or experienced as high-grade helpers should advertise
their services where they may reach the largest number of possible employers.
HELP WANTED
RELIABLE, LIVE,
RESPONSIBLE MEN
who can sell real estate can MAKE MORE
than $200 PER MONTH acting as
AGENTS for the sale of our properties in
MUSKOGEE and TAFT, OKLAHOMA.
The real coming country where there are
opportunities and openings for all. Write
us to-day, giving your age and experience,
and we will offer you a FINE PROPOSI-
TION WHICH WILL MAKE YOU
MONEY. Address
REEVES REALTY GO.
Department C
217 Flynn-Ames Bldg.	Muskogee, Okla.
AGENTS—Represent reliable house, 400 per
cent, profit. Selling GORDON’S Photo Pillow
Tops. High grade work. Easy sales. Big money.
Samples and catalogue free.
Luther Gordon Co. 208 N. Fifth Ave., Chicago, 331.
AGENTS—Big money. Johnson-Flynn
fight and other copyrighted Negro pic-
tures. Portraits. Pillow Tops. Catalog
FREE. 30 days’ credit.
PEOPLES PORTRAIT CO.
Station U, Chicago, 111.
WANTED—Reliable men with references
to handle the best Stock Investment on
the market. Any good solicitor can earn
from $50 to $100 per month.
Our reference: The Bank of Mound
Bayou.
THE S. I. & E. CORPORATION
Mound Bayou, Miss.
MUTUAL TEACHERS’
AGENCY
Recommends teachers for schools; secures
employment for teachers. Blanks and
information furnished free on application.
1335 T Street, N. W. Washington, D. C.
PATENTS
L. H. LATIMER
MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEER
and
SOLICITOR OF PATENTS
56 John Street	New York
Inventions Perfected, Models and Experi-
mental Machines Designed and Constructed.
Technical Translations.
Telephone 343 John	Boom 004
EVERYBODY’S GUIDE
By mail, 50 cents postpaid
12 mo.; 410 pages; paper cover.
Comprising valuable information and more than
3,000 recipes and tables, for all classes of workers,
from the household to the factory. Agents wanted.
Quick seller.
H . E . CLARK
309 East 119th Street	New York, N. Y.
REGALIA
A RACE ENTERPRISE
Manufacturing Badges, Banners and Sup-
plies for all Fraternal and Church Societies.
Catalogue upon request.
CENTRAL REGALIA CO.
Jos. L. Jones, Pres.
N.	E. Cor. 8th and Plum Streets
Cincinnati, Ohio
Mention The Cbisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
255
REAL ESTATE
UNDERTAKERS
Valuable Texas Lands
For Sale
Large tracts of farm land in the best localities
of the State for sale at very flattering prices.
Bmall tracts of good lands suitable for farming,
truck, fruits and any domestic product. We have
for sale a number of large farms already in cultiva-
tion, good houses an ' barns, wells, and nice pasture
lands, which can be obtained at reasonable rates.
City property a specialty. Business lots in the best
f)art of the city, improved and unimproved. Large
ots suitable for factory property with Bwitcb
facilities.
No investment can be more valuable than an in-
vestment in Texas real estate. Lands are becoming
so valuable that they are doubling themselves in
value in less than a year’s time. For any invest-
ment in Texas property, write T. B. Madison Beal
Estate Company, 2415 Elm Street, Dallas. Texas.
To Colored People
pOR SALE—We have houses from 91,000 to
A $30,000. Our city is the capital of Ohio and
» great manufacturing center—plenty of work, a
good place to locate for business. Can sell you a
house for $50, $100 to $500 down, balance like
rent. For investment and • speculating houses or
business places, $1,000 to $5,000 down, balance on
long time payment. Farm land prices from $1,000
to $10,000 up. Any of these are in good locations.
Write for further information.
THIS IS A COLORED ENTERPRISE.
EDWARD A. SHANKLIN
Real Estate
1118t4 ML Vernon Ave.	Colunbus, Ohio
Canada, Province oi
British Columbia
WANTED—To hear from one hundred
respectable colored families who desire to
settle in British Columbia, where I have
four hundred acres of rich black lo3m
garden land, all cleared, that I will sub-
divide into five-acre blocks, build good
comfortable homes of two to ten rooms,
barns, sheds, etc. This property is near
Vancouver, with railway, electric lines and
water transportation conveniently near;
located on the best salmon-fishing stream in
the world; an abundance of game, wild duck,
pheasant, quail, deer, etc. The section around
is well populated and very rich and valuable.
Maps with plans, etc., now ready. Be
prepared to make your selection upon receipt
of same, for the number of these blocks is
limited. A very small cash^payment will be
required, balance to run five years. For full
particulars, etc., write me at once.
ANDREW J. NAPIER
Real Estate and Insurance
736 Nelson St., Vancouver, B. C.
Telephone Columbus 3935	Open All Night
RODNEY DADE & BROS.
Undertakers and Embalm era
Notary Pnbllc
Funeral Parlor and Chapel Free.
Licensed Lady Embalmer	Prompt Service
260 West 63d Street	New York, N. Y.
Between Broadway and 8th Avenue
MOVING
Telephone 4214 Greeley
BRANIC’S EXPRESS
PACKING AND	SHIPPING
ANDREW J.	BRANIC
Formerly	Manager Virginia Transfer	Company
459	SEVENTH AVENUE	New	York	City
Orders by mail or ’phone receive promut attention
TRUNKS STORED 25c. PER MONTH
Official Expressman for the C. V. B. A.
INVESTMENTS
Invest Your Money
in M^ound Bayou
We are promoting and financing The
People’s Brick Company, one of the
most-needed and best-paying enter-
prises in the town.
OUR REFERENCE: THE
BANK OF MOUND BAYOU.
OR ANY CITIZEN.
YOUR MONEY will earn 7 per
cent, from the time it is invested, and
much more in the very near future.
For complete information address
Uic S. I. E. Corporation
MOUND BAYOU. MISS.
WIGINGTON & BELL
Architects
Karbach Block
Omaha, Neb.
Mention The Crisis.
256
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE
ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE
Offices: 26 Vesey Street, New York.	Incorporated May 25, 1911
OFFICERS
National President—Mr. Moorfleld. Storey, Boston,
Mass.
Vice-Presidents—
Rev. Jolm Haynes Holmes, Now York.
Mr. John E. Milholland, New York.
Bishop Alexander Walters, New York.
Rev. Garnet R. Waller, Baltimore, Md.
Miss Mary White Ovington, Brooklyn, N. Y.
Chairman of the Board of Directors—
Mr. Oswald Garrison Villard, New York.
Treasurer—Mr. Walter E. Sachs, New York.
Director of Publicity and Research—
Dr. W. E. B. Du Bois, New York.
Secretary—Miss May Childs Norney, Brooklyn, N. *•
Assistant Searotary—Miss Martha Omening, New
York.
This year we shall attack segregation laws,
defend the Negro in his civil rights, protest
race discrimination.
We want 2,000 members January 1, 1913.
investigate lynching,
unceasingly against
Watch the clock!
MEMBERSHIP BLANK
I hereby accept membership in the NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE
ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE.
Please find enclosed..
..:..... .paying $----
Name__________________
...dollars and enter my name as a member in Class
a year, and send me THE CRISIS.
Address
Class 1. Life Members, paying $500.
Class 2. Donors, paying $100 per year.
Class 3. Sustaining Members, paying $25
per year.
Class 4. Contributing Members, paying $10,
$5 or $2 per year.
Class 5. Associate Members,. paying $1 per
year.
The subscription to THE CRISIS is $1 extra, except to members paying $5 or more, who
signify their wish that $1 of their dues be considered a CRISIS subscription.
All members in good standing have the privilege of attending and voting at the Annual
Conference of the Association.
PLEASE
MAKE CHECKS PAYABLE TO * NATIONAL ASSOCIATION TOR THE ADVANCEMENT
OF COLORED PEOPLE, 26 VESEY STREET, NEW YORK CITY.
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
257
PERSONAL CARDS
Ten YearB with Dr. D. C. White
Telephone 7189 Morningside
DR. JAMES A. BANKS
DENTIST
204 WEST 133d STREET, NEW YORK
Porcelain, Crown and Bridge Work a Specialty
Pure Nitrous-Oxide Gas Administered
J. DOUGLAS WETMORE
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
5 Beekman Street (Temple Court)
New York City
Tel. 6222 Cortlandt	Cable Address, Judowet
FREDERICK L. McGHEE
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Union Block, Fourth and Cedar Streets
St. Paul, Minn.
General Practice	Notary Public
WILLIAM R. MORRIS
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
1020 Metropolitan Life Building
Minneapolis, Minn.
Real Estate and Probate Matters a Specialty
ROBERT B. BARCUS
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Notary Public
Office: Room 502, Eberly Block,	Columbus, O
B. S. SMITH
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Offices: Suite 610, Sykes Block.
Minneapolis, Minn.
GEORGE W. MITCHELL
Attomey-at-Law
908 Walnut Street
Philadelphia, Pa.
Tel. 2026 Fort Hill	Cable Address, Epben
EDGAR P. BENJAMIN
Attorney and Counsellor-at-Law
34 SCHOOL STREET	Boston, Mass. * 21
Telephone Connection
W. Ashbie Hawkins	George W. F. McMechen
HAWKINS & McMECHEN
Attorneys-at-Law
21 East Saratoga Street	Baltimore, Md.
PAMPHLETS
Published and sold by
The National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People
1.	African Civilization: By M. D. Mac-
lean. Price 2 cents.
2.	The Brain of the American Negro:
By Burt G. Wilder. Price 20 cents.
3.	Social Control: By Jane Addams, of
Hull House. Price 1 cent.
4.	The Negro as a Soldier: By Briga-
dier-General Burt, U. S. A. Price 5 cents.
5.	Leaving It to the South: An experi-
ence and some conclusions by Charles
Edward Russell. Price 5 cents.
6.	Views of a Southern Woman:	By
Adelene Moffat. Price 2 cents.
7.	Disfranchisement: By John Haynes
Holmes. Price 5 cents.
8.	Contribution of the Negro to Human
Civilization: By Dr. A. F. Chamberlain.
Price 15 cents.
9.	The Relation of the Negroes to the
Whites in the South: By W. E. B. Du Bois.
Price 15 cents.
Address
The Crisis Book Department
26 VESEY STREET	NEW YORK
$65.00
A value unequaled. Sold on
$1.00 Profit Margin. Write
for prices and other styles.
Send for catalog.
C. R. Patterson & Sons
GREENFIELD, OHIO
Largest S^cgro carriage concern in the United States
Mention The Crisis.
258
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
HALF A MAN
The Status of the Negro in New York
By
MARY WHITE OVINGTON
With a foreword by Dr. Franz Boas of Columbia University
Chapter I. How the colored people won their civil and political rights.
Chapters II. and III. The Negro tenement and the life of the poor.
Chapters IV. and V. How the colored man earns his living, with a full descrip-
tion of the professions; the ministry, the stage.
Chapter VI. The colored woman, her discouragements and successes.
Chapter VII. A vivid description of the life of the well-to-do Negroes.
Chapter VIII. The Negro in politics in New York.
Chapter IX. The author's personal views on the race question.
Price $1.00; by mail, $1.12.
LONGMANS, GREEN & CO., Publishers, NEW YORK
This book is for sale in the Book Department of The Crisis, 26 Vesey St., N. Y.
Make Your Spare Moments
Profitable
CJ The continued growth of The CRISIS necessitates the extension of
our field force, and we need representatives in all cities to establish
sub-agencies and look after renewals.
^ If you can spare a few hours each month to look after our interests
in your city, we can make you a proposition that will interest you. The
work is dignified as well as profitable.
-------- ADDRESS BUSINESS MANAGER	—
THE CRISIS, 26 Vesey Street, NEW YORK
Mention The Crisis.
BEST BOOKS
For students of the Negro Problem and general readers. Your library will
be incomplete without a selection from this up-to-date list.
These are books produced by the best writers and most able authorities on
the problems affecting the races. By mail at following prices:
ESSAYS
RACE ADJUSTMENT.
Kelly Miller.............$2.15
SOULS OF BLACK FOLK.
W. E. B. Du Bois......... 1.35
CURSE OF RACE PREJUDICE.
Jas. F. Morton, Jr.........27
ATLANTA UNIVERSITY STUDIES
The Atlanta University Studies are an
annual study of decennially recurring sub-
jects, covering every phase of Negro-Ameri-
can life.
No. 7—THE NEGRO ARTISAN.......S .75
No. 8—THE NEGRO CHURCH....... 1.50
No. 9—NOTES ON NEGRO CRIME .50
No. 10—BIBLIOGRAPHY	OF THE
NEGRO-AMERICAN ................25
No.	11—HEALTH AND	PHYSIQUE
OF THE NEGRO-AMERICAN....... 1.50
No. 12—ECONOMIC	CO-OPERATION
AMONG NEGRO-AMERICANS....... 1.00
No. 13—THE	NEGRO - AMERICAN
FAMILY ........................75
No. 11—EFFORTS	FOR SOCIAL
BETTERMENT AMONG NEGRO-
AMERICANS .....................75
No. 15—THE COLLEGE-BRED NEGRO-
AMERICAN ......................75
No.	16—THE	NEGRO	COMMON
SCHOOL ........................75
FICTION
QUEST OF THE SILVER FLEECE.
W. E. B. Du Bois........Si.50
FLOWER O' THE PEACH.
Percival Gibbon......... 1.15
MARROW OP TRADITION.
Chas. W.	Cbesnutt... 1.65
HOUSE BEHIND THE CEDARS.
Chas. W.	Chesnutt... 1.65
THE WIFE OF HIS YOUTH.
Chas. W. Chesnutt....... . 1.65
THE CONJURE WOMAN.
Chas. W. Chesnutt...... 1-40
SPORT OF THE GODS.
Paul Laurence Dunbar.... 1.65
THE TESTING FIRE.
Alexander Corkey....... 1.35
WISDOM’S CALL.
Sutton E. Griggs..........60
POEMS
LYRICS OF LOWLY LIFE.
Paul Laurence Dunbar.....$1.-10
LYRICS OF THE HEARTH-SIDE.
Paul Laurence Dunbar...... 1.10
LYRICS OF LOVE AND LAUGHTER.
Paul Laurence Dunbar......1.40
LYRICS OF SUNSHINE AND SHADOW.
Paul Laurence Dunbar...... 1.40
POEMS OF PHILLIS WHEATLEY. . . . 1.10
HISTORICAL AND SCIENTIFIC
NEGRO IN THE SOUTH.
Washington and Du Bois....$1.10
NEGRO IN THE NEW WORLD.
Sir Harry Johnston........ 6.30
MIND OF PRIMITIVE MAN.
Franz Boaz...............  1.65
INTER-RACIAL PROBLEMS.
Official Record. Univ. R. C.. .. 2.55
HISTORY OF THE NEGRO RACE.
E. A. Johnson. ........... 1.40
NEGRO EXPLORER AT THE NORTH
POLE.
Matthew A. Henson........ 1.10
SUPPRESSION OF THE SLAVE
TRADE.
W. E. B. Du Bois......... 1.65
BIOGRAPHIES, ETC.
JOHN BROWN.
W. E. B. Du Bois.........$1.40
FREDERICK DOUGLASS.
Booker T. Washington..... 1.40
LIFE OF HARRIET BEECHER STOWE.
By her son and grandson.. 1.65
UP FROM SLAVERY.
Booker T. Washington..... 1.65
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF AN EX-
COLORED MAN.
(Anonymous) .............. 1.40
SOCIAL STUDIES
HALF-A-MAN.
M. W. Ovington...........$1.12
AFTERMATH OF SLAVERY.
W. A. Sinclair.......... 1.65
SOUTHERN SOUTH.
Albert B. Hart.......... 1.65
RACE PREJUDICE.
J. Finot................. 3.25
NEGRO AND THE NATION.
G. C. Merriam........... 1.92
FREE
Should you at any
time require special in-
formation concerning
books, authors or pub-
lishers, WRITE US.
Our location gives us
the opportunity to
render this service to
our many patrons.
This service is FREE.
SPECIAL OFFER
Add 75 cents to the
regular price quoted
for any of these books and we will send you THE
CRISIS for one year and one CRISIS cover design,
printed on plain paper, for framing. Size 854 x 11.
Address all orders to the
MAIL ORDER DEPARTMENT
THE
26 Vesey Street
CRISIS
New York City
Mention The Crisis.
PRINTING IS ART
It is not expensive machinery and high-grade paper stock alone,
but it is those things plus correct type formations and artistic blending
of colors with textures combined with superior workmanship.
Progressive business men appreciate the business-building qualities
of stationery, catalogues and printed things produced in our shop.
Mr. Conde Nast, of Vogue, Dr. W. E. B. Du Bois, of The
CRISIS, and Prof. J. E. Spingarn are among our satisfied patrons.
II rite for samples and quotations.
ROBER T N. W OOD, Printing and Engraving
202 EAST 99th STREET	NEW YORK
’Phone 0067 Lenox
Mention Tits Ostsis.
.@g§00B@§D
THE CRISIS
A R.ECOR.D OF THE DAR.KER. RACES
ONE DOLLAR A YEAR
TEN CENTS A COPY
□□□ ii n n m ® @ □□□
The only school in the country fur Negro
Youth which has a Military Department
equipped by the National Government, and
•-orninunded by u detailed United States Army
Oflicer.
DEPARTMENTS
MILITARY	SCIENTIFIC
NORMAL	TECHNICAL
COMMERCIAL THEOLOGICAL
CLASSICAL	MUSICAL
PREPARATORY
Hanking taught by the actual operations
in the Students’ Savings Bank. Twelve In-
dustries, 180 acres of beautiful campus, Ten
Buildings Healthful surroundings, excep-
tional community. Maintained in part by the
State of Ohio which supplies facilities for the
thorough training of teachers.
Fall term began September, 1912. Write
for Catalog.
W. S. SCARBOROUGH, President
WM. A. JOINEB, Superintendent, C. N. I.
Department.
Address all communications to
WILBERFORCE. OHIO
BOX 36
FORWARD
MARCH YOUR SON OFF TO
^Vilterf orce	University
Atlanta University
Is beautifully locuted in the City of Atlanta, Ga.
The courses of study include High. School, Nor-
mal School and College, with manual training
and domestic science. Among the teachers are
graduates of Yale, Harvard, Dartmouth, Smith
and Wellesley. Forty-one years of successful
work have been completed. Students come from
all parts of the South. Graduates are almost
universally successful.
For further information address
President EDWARD T. WARE
ATLANTA, GA.
Knoxville College
Beautiful Situation. Healthful Location.
The Best Moral and Spiritual Environment.
A Splendid Intellectual Atmosphere.
Noted for Honest and Thorough Work.
Offers full courses in the following departments:
College, Normal, High School, Grammar School and
I ndustrial.
Good water, steuin heat, electric lights, good
drainage. Expenses very reasonable.
Opportunity for Self-help.
Fall Term Began September, 1912.
For information address
President R. W. McGRANAHAN
KNOXVILLE, TENN.
Uirginia Union University
RICHMOND, VA.
A College Department, of high standards and
modern curriculum.
A Theological Department, with all subjects
generally required in the best theological seminaries.
An Academy, with manual training, giving a
preparation for life or for college.
The positive moral and religious aim of the
school, its high standards of entrance and of class
work, its fine new buildings and well-equipped
laboratories and library prepare a faithful student
for a life of wide usefulness.
GEORGE RICE HOVEY, President
Fisk University
NASHVILLE, TENN.
The largest colored college in the South.
A new department of sociology and social
service. A notable equipment in land
and buildings. Endorsed by the General
Education Board. For information address
GEORGE A. GATES, President
Mention Tut Calais.
THE CRISIS
A RECORD OF THE DARKER RACES
PUBLISHED BY THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED
PEOPLE. AT 26 VESEY STREET. NEW YORK CITY
Edited by W. E. Burghabdt Du Bois, with the co-operation of Oswald Garrison Villard,
Contents for October, 1912
ARTICLES	PAGE
MR. HARE. A story for children.................. 292
SOME BOOKS FOR BOYS AND GIRLS. By Jessie Fauset. 295
HISTORIC DAYS IN OCTOBER.	By L. M.	Hershaw... 298
A PLEA FOR THE SURVIVAL OF THE PROTECTORATES OF
SOUTH AFRICA. By Frances	Hoggan,	M. D........ 300
THE CUBAN REVOLUTION. By	James	B.	Clarke.... 301
DEPARTMENTS
ALONG THE COLOR LINE............................ 267
MEN OF THE MONTH................................ 276
OPINION ........................................ 280
EDITORIAL ...................................... 287
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE............................... 299
THE BURDEN...................................... 302
TEN CENTS A COPY; ONE DOLLAR A YEAR
FOREIGN SUBSCRIPTIONS TWENTY-FIVE CENTS EXTRA.
RENEWALS:	When a subscription blank is attached to this pace a renewal of your
subscription is desired. If the blank is BLUE your subscription expires NEXT month. If the
blank is YELLOW your subscription expires THIS month. If the blank is RED your subscription
has already expired and no further copies of the magazine will be sent until you renew.
CHANGE OF ADDRESS: The address of a subscriber can be changed as often as desired.
In ordering a change of address, both the old and the new address must be given. Two weeks’
notice is required.
MANUSCRIPTS and drawings relating to colored people are desired. They must be accom-
panied by return postage. If found unavailable they will be returned.
Entered as Second-class Matter in the Post Office at Srew York, N. Y.
264
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
very
College Training Schools
NORTH SIDE. PITTSBURGH. PA.
A superior training school for young colored women, thoroughly instructing
its students as a means of self-support in dressmaking, cutting and drafting, domestic
science, music, nurse training, millinery, and an intermediate English course. This
institution is under the influence of no religious denomination, is the oldest endowed
chartered Negro institution in America. The accommodations in its dormitory,
which is in charge of a competent matron, are excelled by no colored institution
in this country.
The hospital department offers the same course as the large hospitals of the
State of Pennsylvania, fully equipped with its operating rooms, diet kitchen and
ambulance service. The course requires three years’ lectures on general nursing,
anatomy, ethics, surgery, obstetrics, asepsis, antiseptics, gynecology, pediatrics, eye,
nose, throat, materia medica, therapeutics and dietetics under a staff of white and
colored physicians. Catalogues now ready.
Address all communications to
JOSEPH D. MAHONEY, Secretary
Box 154	North Side, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Daytona Educational and Industrial
School for Negro Girls
DAYTONA, FLORIDA
It reaches, by reason of its location, a large
territory of Negro children deprived of educa-
tional privileges.
Its comfortable home life and Christian in7
fluences Insure a certain individual attention
and superior training Impossible in larger in-
stitutions of its kind.
Mrs. Frances R. Keyser, formerly in charge
of the White Rose Home for Working Girls.
In New York City, has been elected Principal
of the Academic Department. Write for catalog
and detailed information.
MARY McLEOD BETHUNE
Founder and Principal
Binghamton Normal, Industrial and
Agricultural Institute
BINGHAMTON, N. Y.
Courses offered: Academic, Trades, Agri-
culture, Music and Band Instruction for boys.
A course in Dining Room work and the Art of
Serving is offered to men and women in addi-
tion to other studies. Arrangements can be
made for anxious students to work out part
expenses. Attached department for boys and
girls between the ages of ten to fifteen years.
For terms and information address
FRED C. HAZEL, President
(Graduate Hampton Institute)
Campus and Farm contains 105 acres overlooking
the Chenango and Susquehanna Rivers.
Agri cultural and
^Mechanical College
Open all the year round. For
males only. Strong, practical and
theoretical courses leading to
degree of Bachelor of Science in
Agriculture, and Bachelor of
Science in Mechanics. Board,
lodging and tuition, $7.00 per
month. Write to-day for catalog
or for further information.
JAS. B. DUDLEY, President
GREENSBORO. N. C.
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
265
Northwestern Normal, Agricultural and
Industrial Institute, Lorain, Ohio.
A partly free industrial school, the only institu-
tion in the Northwest that offers a thorough indus-
trial and literary, moral and religious trnining to
Negro youths. Beautifully located in sight of Lake
Erie. Healthful location. Fall term opens October
1. 1912. For information address
Rev. S. Douglass McDuffie, Principal.
_____________Lorain, Ohio._____________
Atlanta University
Studies of the
Negro Problems
16 Monographs.	Sold Separately.
Address:
A G. DILL
Atlanta University, Atlanta, Ga.
The Curse of Race Prejudice
By James F. Morton, Jr., A. M.
An aggressive exposure by an Anglo-Saxon
champion of equal rights. Startling facts and crush-
ing arguments. Fascinating reading. A necessity
for clear understanding and up-to-date propaganda.
Belongs in the library of every' friend of social
justice. Price 25 cents. Send orders to
JAMES F. MORTON, JR.
2ll West 143d Street	New York, N. Y.
The Power of Womanhood
A Speech by Joseph Wellington
PRICE 20 CENTS
Sold by
THE STANDARD NEWS COMPANY
131 West 53d Street, New York
AGENTS WANTED EVERYWHERF
A Remarkable Book by Wm. George Jordan
The MAJESTY of CALMNESS
CONTENTS:
The Majesty of Calmness.
Hurry, the Scourge of America.
The Power of Personal Influence.
The Dignity of Self Reliance.
Failure us a Success.
Doing Our Best at All Times.
The Royal Road to Happiness.
Ornamental Covers. Price, 25c. Postpaid.
Order from FRANCES L. DUSENBERRY
(Book Shop)
27 E. Randolph St.	Chicago, 111.
Beginning to Think of Christmas?
i
The
Quest
of the
Silver
Fleece
A NOVEL
by
W. E. BURGHARDT
DU BOIS
Drawings by
H. S. DE LAY
Here is a story of the darker world
in the South and in Washington, D.
C. It is dramatic in style and ab-
sorbing in interest and expresses the
feeling of colored people about them-
selves and their own problems; at the
same time it shows how both black
folk and white are caught in the
power of King Cotton.
AT ALL BOOKSTORES
PRICE $1.35 XET
A. C. McCLURG & CO.
New York Chicago San Francisco
OF INTEREST TO
VOCAL STUDENTS
Tone Placing and
Voice Development
Practical method of singing for
daily practice, based upon artistic
principles, together with a care-
fully prepared number of exercises,
forming a comprehensive, progres-
sive and self-explained course in
voice building, which constitute the
technical side of the vocal art.
Comment from the world-renowned conductor of
the Paulist Choir of Chicago, 111., whose choir has
just received the first prize awarded at the Sing-
ing Contest held in Paris on May 25, 1912:
“Dear Mr. Tinsley:
“I take great pleasure in commending your
very useful and succinctly written book on ‘Tone-
Placing and Voice-Development.’ Your own appre-
ciation of the psychology of singing and the funda-
mental principles of the art you have cleverly re-
duced to a simple system.
“Cordially yours,
“Father WILLIAM J. FINN, C. S. P..
"Director Paulist Choristers of Chicago.’'
Price $1. Address the publisher:
Our Book Department is arranging some
appropriate combinations suitable for inex-
pensive gifts.
Watch for our announcement next
month.
PEDRO T. TINSLEY
6448 Drexel Avenue CHICAGO, ILL.
or Clayton F Summy. 84-66 E. Van Boren St.
(Stein way Hall Bldg), and Lyon A Healy, Adams
and Wabash Sts., Onicago, 111.
Mention The Crisis.
266
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
SCHOOL OF BEAUTY CULTURE AND HAIR DRESSING
KELSEYS
328 Lenox Avenue
Telephone Harlem 1896
126th Street, NEW YORK.
Manicuring, Shampooing, Hair Dressing, Marcel War-
ing, Facial and Body Massage, Hair Making, Chiropody,
etc., scientifically taught. Unlimited practice in parlor
day and night. Pupils taught at home, if desired.
Diplomas. Special Summer Course, 37.60 up. Send for
booklet. Mmo. A. Carter Kelsey, Gen’l Intr.; Dr. Samuel
A. Kelsey, Chiropodist, President and Gen’l Manager.
Buy Direct From the Producer
Save Importer’s.
Wholesaler's
and
Retailer’s
Profits.
Tins iii*r»ii8ccut
French Curl
Ostrich Plume
■ full IV
ches it
length.
main hir'l.
Has a very
cl',ka.v fiber
i rxtra wi*le. with heavy *Ir-.- |.ins
hca<l Let us send you this Plume on
approval. Send us 15c U> |>av express
charges, and we will send yon this ln:auti*
'ful Flume in Mack, white or colors, to your
express office C O. D. with privilege of exam-
tation. If satisfactory pay tho express ajfent
V. and the Plumo is yours. If. however, you
do not think this the most marvelous value you ever
saw. if you ran duplicate of your dealer for less than
Sr V. Mi. toll the express agent to return the Plume to us and we
wlU refund your 15c. Or, If you prefer to send the full amount,
tl.'j:,. we w ill send the Plume hy return mail, postage prepaid,
and if not satisfactory, wo will promptly refund your money.
We take all the risk. For complete lino of Ostrich Feathers
includin' l.ar-'MD» i-i Willow Plumes, write for free catalor
C DP 01 A I fUll 18-INCH OSTRICH PLUME O 28
OrCblAL BLACK AND COLORS
South African Importing to.. Dcpt.Cr IMI Wabash Ave.. Chicago.
Your old feathers made into beautiful
Willow Plumes. Send them to us and wo
will quote you a price.
You Never Saw Anything Like
KOKORA
The Oriental Novelty Perfume. It’s
NEW. Decorated metal box containing
10 dainty little “perfumers” mailed post-
paid for 35 cents; and the odor—that’s our
own creation—you’ll like it. Send to-day!
Alexander Specialty Co.
494 Highland Avenue, Passaic, N. J.
M2$ BATHTUB
Wl'*)* no Plamblng, roqulrcs little xx
VujrfJ^J6| P?UD,d,‘ °"<1 told. Into small
***•• '*» Ut«« Iksa da luU. La-
r., Ai	*'oU vCer “d description. IU>!
Mb' Atlsttj bL.Tolsda, 0. Mtit. Turkiin liaih Cs!
^fl^Persons who are looking for a site
for an Old Folks’ Home in Westchester
County will learn something to their
advantage by inquiring at THE CRISIS
office.
Telephone 3253 Harlem
CARPET CLEANING
Cleaners and Renovators
For Particular People
New York Careful Cleaning Bureau
12 West 135th Street
We mako a specialty of cleaning and renovating
carpets, rugs, portieres and upholstered furniture;
we also vacuum clean in the home. We are not
the largest carpet cleaner in the warld, but abso-
lutely the most careful in every detail.
SHAMPOOING CARPETS AND RUG8 OUR
SPECIALTY
REAL ESTATE
Valuable Texas Lands
For Sale
Large tracts of farm land in the best localities
of the State for sale at very flattering prices.
Small tracts of good lands suitable for fanning,
truck, fruits and any domestic product. We have
for sale a number of large farms already in cultiva-
tion, good houses an * barns, wells, and nice pasture
lands, which can be obtained at reasonable rates.
City property a specialty. Business lots In the best
part of the city, improved and unimproved. Large
lots suitable for factory property with switch
facilities.
No investment can be more valuable than an in-
vestment in Texas real estate. Lands are becoming
so valuable that they are doubling themselves in
value in less than a year's time. For any invest-
ment in Texas property, write T. B. Madiion Beal
EBtate Company, 2416 Elm Street, Dallas, Texas.
T© Colored People
■JpOR SALE—We have houses from $1,000 to
$30,000. Our city is the capital of Ohio and
a great manufacturing center—plenty of work, a
good plnce to locate for business. Can sell you a
house for $50, $100 to $500 down, balance like
rent. For investment and speculating houses or
business places, $1,000 to $5,000 down, balance on
long time payment. Farm land prices from $1,000
to $10,000 up. Any of these are in good locations.
Write for further information.
THIS IS A COLORED ENTERPRISE.
EDWARD A. SHANKLIN
Real Estate
1218^4 Mt. Vernon Ave. Columbia, Ohio
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS

268
THE
CRISIS
POLITICAL.
r* OLORED men are being: barred from
the councils of the Dull Moose party
in Louisiana and Kentucky, as well as other
Southern States. In Ohio, on the other
hand, forty-eight colored delegates are
being sent to the State convention.
^ J. L. Mitchell of Rhode Island, who was
delegate to the Progressive convention at
Chicago, is still supporting Roosevelt, but
declares:
“I do not agree that Roosevelt was right
in his attitude in attempting ‘steam-roller
methods, so called, in connection with the
contests among delegates for seats in the
convention. I contended that the Southern
Negro delegates should be seated and I still
hold to that contention. While I do not
advocate Negro political leaders, I hold that
the Negro is working for the success of the
party just as much as the white man is and
that he should be on equal footing with the
whites, especially in States where mixed
delegations were sent to the convention.”
<2 In the United States Senate Senator Pen-
rose of Pennsylvania declared that George
W. Perkins had underwritten $3,000,000 to
be used in buying Negro delegates to the
Chicago convention last June, away from
Taft and in creating “fake” contests in the
South.
^ <] Five election officials have been arrested
in Oklahoma by United States deputy
marshals. They are charged with refusing
to register Negro voters. Other arrests are
expected.
<3 In Arkansas the heavy Negro vote has
killed the proposed grandfather clause.
*3 In Ohio the objectionable word “white”
was not stricken from the constitution by
the vote in the late election.
<2 The State political convention of colored
\ men has met in Boley, Okla., to consider the
preservation of constitutional rights at the
polls. Delegates have been regularly appor-
tioned among different parts of the territory
and every organized Negro church has one
delegate.
SOCIAL UPLIFT.
AN invention which promises to revise the
signal system on various railroads of
the land has just been patented by Percy
Clay and George Washington, two colored
men of New Orleans.
*1 Among the guards on John D. Rocke-
feller’s estate are eighteen armed colored
men.
•3 A permit has been issued in Jackson-
ville, Fla., for the erection of a five-story
masonic building at the corner of Broad and
Duval Streets. The building will cost
$10,000 and will contain a bank, business
offices and lodge rooms.
<1 In Providence, 1L I., GOO young eolored
women sold tags throughout the day in order
to pay an indebtedness of $10,000 on the
Watchman Industrial School. There was a
station in each of the department stores and
the young women also worked on the streets.
<3 Plans for a $100,000 Y. M. C. A. to be
erected in Atlanta, Ga., are well on the way.
There will be reception rooms, lecture rooms,
kitchen and dining rooms, baths and swim-
ming pool; two floors will be used for
dormitories; separate boys’ departments will
be maintained. The building will be seven
stories high.
<2 Strenuous effort is being made in St.
Louis by both colored and white people to
lessen the friction between the races due to
the expanding Negro population and the de-
mand for better homes. The committee for
social service among colored people, organ-
ized in 1910, devotes itself entirely to social
and industrial problems affecting colored
people, the special object being to remove
discriminations on account of color in the
work of public and private agencies for
social betterment. The committee is in no
way attempting to offer a solution for the
“race problem,” other than by securing for
colored people the same forces for relief,
employment, medical care, recreation, edu-
cation, etc., as exist for the rest of the
community.
During the last year this committee has
been instructing thirty-nine people in meth-
ods of social service, has secured admission
of colored organizations to the new delegate
body, the Central Council of Social Agen-
cies, has arranged a general conference to
discuss the social problems of colored people.
State provision for the care of delinquent
colored girls has been advocated and a start
made.
<3 A joint committee, composed of both white
and Negro members from the social-service
conference and the committee for social
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
269
service among Negroes, has been formed to
study the question of housing Negroes in
St. Louis.
The first step will be the construction of
a map showing the location of the Negro
population and the movement of population
Jn the last ten years. An inquiry will be
instituted into housing conditions, including
a comparison of rents and locations.
At the same time the committee will make
a country-wide investigation of segregation
and friction between the races, particularly
in the border-line cities, including Washing-
ton, Baltimore, Louisville, Pittsburgh, In-
dianapolis. New York, Chicago and Kansas
£ity. This will form the basis for a state-
ment of the facts for and against segrega-
tion, which will be published by the
committee.
The committee will act as a board of arbi-
tration in specific cases of friction and at-
tempt to prevent fraud and misuse of
Negroes and whites in real-estate transac-
tions.
*1 A modern hospital for colored people is
being planned in Knoxville, Tenn.
*3 The census reports that in 1910 there were
in continental United States, as a whole,
9,S27,763 Negroes, of whom 2,050,686, or
20.9 per cent., were reported as mulattoes.
In 1S90 there were 1,132,060 mulattoes re-
ported, or 15.2 per cent, of all the Negroes,
and in 1S70 a total of 5S4,049, or 12 per
cent. Thus the figures taken at their face
value show that about one-fifth of all the
Negroes in 1910 had some admixture of
white blood, as against about one-eighth in
1S70.
This report is, of course, far below the
truth. There is little doubt but that one-
third of the colored people in the United
States have white blood.
ECONOMICS.
NE of the oldest amusement places in
Los Angeles, Cal.—Luna Park—is
about to be purchased by colored people.
The total investment will be about $70,000
if present arrangements are completed.
<3 The three counties with the largest amount
of land owned by Negroes are said to be
Macon County, Ala., with 61.6S9 acres;
Liberty County, Ga., with 55,04S acres, and
Louisa County, Va., with 53,26S acres.
Samuel F. Jones, a colored farmer of
Delaware, has recently died, leaving real
estate valued at $25,000.
<3 The Alabama Penny Savings Bank, a col-
ored institution, celebrates its twenty-second
anniversary by the occupation of a new
building. This modern fireproof building
is being erected on 18th Street, between
Third and Fourth Avenues, Birmingham,
Ala. Colored laborers are being employed
entirely.
The Birmingham Age-Herald, in a report
concerning the colored people of Memphis,
says that there are 500 families there owning
homes valued at $5,000 and upward. One
widow owns an estate of $300,000 and a
colored letter carrier is worth $150,000. The
colored Solvent Savings Bank has over
$100,000 in deposits, and there are sixty
colored letter carriers in the postoffice.
<3 The report to Congress on taxation in the
District of Columbia shows how the burden
of taxation falls upon the colored people
and poor whites, while the rich people
escape. The laborers house is taxed at 90
per cent, of its value, while the houses of
millionaires are taxed at about 50 per cent.
<3 Hannibal, Mo., is the seat of the largest
colored insurance society west of the Missis-
sippi. It is known as the Home Protective
Association and has a membership of over
20,000.
*3 Forty-seven colored men have each taken
up a tract of 640 acres at Brownlee, Prairie
County, Neb. Colored men of this section
own 28,600 acres.
A factional fight has broken out between
the colored and white branches of the long-
shoremen’s union in Galveston, Tex. The
locals, it seems, demanded that equal num-
bers of whites and Negroes be employed in
cotton “jamming.” It seems that only
Negroes were employed and the whites are
in bad temper.
One feature of Labor Day this year has
been the growth of its observance as a Negro
holiday by workingmen in the South. In
Nashville, for instance, there were large
crowds in colored parks and parades of col-
ored unions. Colored playhouses had special
bills.
EDUCATION.
JAMES F. BOURNE, a colored druggist,
who was appointed to the Atlantic City
board of education by the outgoing mayor,
has been confirmed in his right to hold the
office by the State authorities.
270
THE
CRISIS
The General Education Board has given
during its first ten years of existence
$2,107,500 to higher education in the South.
Practically none of this has gone to college
education for Negroes. For industrial work
and a few secondary schools for Negroes the
board has appropriated $464,015.
Preparations for the opening of the Agri-
cultural and Industrial State Normal School
for Negroes, which is located out on Cen-
tennial Boulevard, Nashville, Tenn., are be-
ing rapidly pushed, in order to have the
school ready to open this fall.
All the buildings—main, academic, indus-
trial, dormitory for women and dormitory
for men—are finished. The furnishing, now
in progress, will be completed soon.
*1 Ruth Marion Peters of Dorchester, Mass.,
who is doing missionary settlement work in
Boston, had her first experience at Beach
Institute, a colored school in Savannah,
Ga. She says:
“At Savannah, where I have been for the
past two years, there is no public high school
for colored people. There are not even
enough graded schools to accommodate the
children. Beach Institute was started by
kind-hearted people in 1867 to help fill this
lack. Of the six teachers at the school five
are Northern women. The past year we had
150 students about evenly divided between
the lower grades and the high school. A
class of twenty-four was graduated May 22,
1912. On the whole, I have found colored
children as bright as corresponding classes
in the Northern schools. And they are so
likeable that one entirely forgets their
color.”
The United States Bureau of Education in
a monograph on mathematics in public and
private secondary schools has something to
say concerning the relative mathematical
ability of the colored and white race.
“The general feeling in the institutions
covered by this report is that the difference
between the races in the matter of mathe-
matics, in so far as any differences exist, are
due to conditions rather than to race
characteristics.”
Thus another pet theory of Negrophobes
seems about to come to grief. In the West
Indies the schools specialize on mental
arithmetic, and the colored children are
amazingly good at it.
MEETINGS.
T N the latter part of August and the
**• early part of September are the con-
vocation weeks of colored America.
<1 The National Medical Association, com-
posed of 526 members and representing
3,500 colored doctors and dentists, met at
Tuskegee, Ala. Clinics were held, lectures
by prominent physicians, both colored and
white, and public-health conferences. A
great deal of charity medical work was done
for the surrounding country population.
The next session will be held at Nashville,
Tenn. The following officers were elected:
J. A. Kenney, Tuskegee, Ala., president;
Walter Alexander, Orange, N. J., secretary;
Percy Roberts, New York, assistant secre-
tary, and J. R. Levy, Florence, S. C..
treasurer.
<3 The colored Odd Fellows met in Atlanta,
Ga., to attend the sixteenth session of the
biennial movable committee. The colored
people literally took the town, exclusive
white parks being opened to them, sessions
being held in the great auditorium and
public officials welcoming them. Permission
was given them to parade “without guns.”
There is a great deal of internal dissension
in the order.
*4 In Chicago the National Negro Business
League held its thirteenth annual session
with a very large attendance. The session
was held at the Institutional Church, and
Julius Rosenwald was among the speakers.
The next meeting will be in Philadelphia in
August, 1913. Mr. Booker T. Washington
was elected president; Mr. Charles Banks,
first vice-president; the Honorable J. C.
Napier, chairman of the executive committee.
The interest of the newspapers was largely
centered on the reports of rich colored men.
E. W. Green of Fayette, Miss., said he was
worth $80,000; David Nelson of Little Rock,
Ark., $50,000; Watt Terry reported an in-
come of $7,000 a month from $500,000 worth
of real estate.
•3 The annual meeting of the national con-
vention of Negro Baptists was held in Hous-
ton, Tex., with several thousand visitors.
<3 The Lott Carey Baptist convention met at
Portsmouth, Va.
<3 The fifth annual convention of the Na-
tional Association of Colored Nurses took
place at Richmond, Ya. Miss Mary F.
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
271
Clark was elected president and Miss
Floralla Porter, corresponding secretary.
*J Negro masons have met in various States.
The Alabama Grand Lodge reported 24,000
members and an income of *104,000 during
the year. They are planning a home for
indigent masons and an industrial school.
^ The Knights of Honor of the World met
in Birmingham, Ala., with representatives
from sixteen States.
^ The eighteenth annual session of the
Afro-American Council of California has
met in Oakland, Cal. Women were admitted
to membership for the first time.
The thirteenth annual session of the Illi-
nois State Federation of Colored Women’s
Clubs was held at Rock Island, 111.
^ Negro fairs are beginning their annual
meetings in various parts of the South.
^ The national convention of the colored
Elks was held in Dayton, O. H. H. Pace
was re-elected Grand Exalted Ruler.
*3 The forty-fifth annual session of the
Order of St. Luke’s met in Richmond, Va.,
with 2,000 delegates and visitors from nine-
teen States.
*3 Because of so many meetings a press
dispatch from New Orleans says that four
special trains loaded with colored people
from various parts of Texas and tiie South-
west passed through the city early in
September.
PERSONAL.
'n OBERT H. CHURCH of Memphis is
dead at the age of 74. His
wealth, which consisted of more than 350
dwellings in the city, is estimated at over
$1,000,000. Mr. Church began life on a
cotton plantation and he was the father of
Mrs. Mary Church Terrell.
*3 Mrs. I. B. Bi’rkins was left $10,000 in the
will of J. W. Creech of Herrington, Kan.
Mrs. Birkins was an orphan colored child
and was reared by the Creech family.
<3 John J. Mills, a thrifty colored farmer of
Chester, S. C., won the annual contest by
bringing in the first bale of cotton.
<3 Mr. Joseph Manning of Alabama, who
has a wide acquaintance among colored peo-
ple, has charge of the colored bureau of the
Taft campaign committee.
<3 Alfred J. Morshan is the first Negro
graduate of Lebanon University, where
Negroes were formerly not admitted. He
also happens to be the five-thousandth
graduate of the school.
<3 The first colored lawyer, Robert N.
Stevens, has been admitted to the Berkshire
County bar of Massachusetts.
<3 John Livingston, a colored playmate of
Mark Twain, died in Oregon City, Ore. He
left an estate of $15,000.
<3 Dr. Solomon P. Hood has been appointed
chief organizer of the emancipation celebra-
tion exhibition for the State of New Jersey.
<3 An angry and terrified bull ran amuck in
the business district of Savannah, attacking
a street car, wrecking a barber shop, an
express office and the mailing room at the
Union Station. It narrowly missed killing
a number of persons, but was finally over-
taken, roped and thrown by a little colored
boy riding on a mule.
<1 Stonewall Jackson, the crack colored
sprinter of Southern California, is being
sought after by the colleges of that section.
The Daily Times of Los Angeles says every
college wants him “and if anyone of them
has ever drawn the color line it will undraw
it if he knocks at the door. He is a prize
worth going after, for he showed in the
national interscholastic meet at Chicago that
he was the best high-school sprinter in the
country.”
<3 Governor Foss of Massachusetts has
nominated Joshua A. Crawford, a colored
lawyer, to be clerk of the Boston Juvenile
Court. If confirmed by the council he will
succeed another colored man, Charles W. M.
Williams. The governor has three times
nominated William L. Reed, for the place,
but the council rejected the nomination.
<3 One of the last things done by Congress
before adjournment was the passage of a
pension bill including a pension for Rebecca
Struthers, an old colored woman of Parkers-
burg, W. Va., for whom a bill had been
introduced by Senator Watson. The bill has
been signed by the President and is now a
law.
*| Madison White, a Negro, b?® been granted
a life pension by the Louisville and Nash-
ville Railroad after having served the com-
pany as porter for more than fifty years.
272
THE
CRISIS
MUSIC AND ART.
' I’HE third annual music festival, under
A the auspices of the Atlanta Colored
Music Festival Association, was given
August 15 and 16 at Atlanta. Ga.
1 he festival opened with the pageant “Up
to Freedom/- depicting three stages of pro-
gress—paganism, slavery and freedom.
The Atlanta Journal says of the produc-
tion: “It was interesting because it was the
first performance of the kind in the history
of the world; and it was significant because
it took place in the South, where the Negro
was sold into slavery and where he must
work out his destiny as a free man. As a
dramatic production, it was a brilliant idea
rather crudely worked out. *	*	* It
could be made magnificently impressive.
There is plenty of the ‘human interest* ele-
ment in the evolution of the Negro; the ac-
companiment of Negro voices in character-
istic Negro melody gives a peculiarly appeal-
ing operatic touch, and the story has a
natural setting that is full of color and
charm. All things considered, the perform-
ance was good. It was a credit to the author
and to the performers. The singing was
very fine. The Fisk Jubilee Male Quartette
and Mme. Anita Patti Brown, who has a
soprano voice of wonderful tone and power,
were the features.”
An organ recital was given Friday after-
noon by Mr. Roy W. Tibbs, a recent gradu-
ate of the Oberlin Conservatory of Music,
who presented a program of high merit.
At the closing concert Mr. Harry T.
Burleigh, the distinguished baritone com-
poser of New York, was heard in numbers
from the composers Ponchielli, Coleridge-
Taylor, Massenet, Cyril Scott, Sidney Homer
and Will Cook, with requested numbers of
his own compositions.
Miss Lulu Vere Childers, contralto, of
Washington, D. C., who directed the choral
work, contributed much to the success of the
festival.
C According to a native musician of India,
named Irayat Khan, now in London, the
oldest musical instrument in the world is the
venna, the invention of a musician living in
the days of Akbar the Great.
This instrument, together with two others,
the seeta and the disturba, will be introduced
at a concert soon to be given in London.
q Miss Kitty Cheatham, the American
singer, has lately given interesting and varied
programs in the Little Theatre, London.
Bug., under the patronage of II. R. H. Prin-
cess Victoria of Schleswig-Holstein.
Her greatest success was scored in the old
Negro songs, especially “Swing Low, Sweet
Chariot,” and “When 1 Come.”
•I The annual operatic festival has taken
place at the Deutsche Landestheater at
Prague. One of the six operas presented
was Meyerbeer’s “L’Africaine,” the scene of
which is laid in Portugal and Africa, and the
principal character that of Selika. a slave
maiden.
<3 A musicale was given on July 5 at "Wash-
ington, D. C., by the Apollo Glee Club and
the Hackley Choral Club, of the Pianoforte
School, of which Mr. J. Hilary Taylor is
director.
*3 During the summer months at Boston.
Mass., Mme. Azalia Hackley, soprano, has
conducted with much profit to the singers a
number of free choral classes. Mme. Hackley
will soon he heard in Boston in a recital of
French songs.
THE GHETTO.
September 14 a test contest of the
celebrated Baltimore segregation law
came up in the courts and will be carried
through the United Slates Supreme Court if
necessary. Mr. Harry Hechheimer, white,
and W. Ashbie Hawkins, colored, are the
lawyers in the case. The National Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Colored People
is interested in the matter.
<3 Difficulties on account of the moving of
colored residents into white neighborhoods
have arisen during the month in the Harlem
section of New York, in Kansas City, Mo.,
in Chicago, 111., in Washington, D. C., and
in St. Louis, Mo. It is said in St. Louis
that in order to protect R. A. Hudlin and
his family the city is spending $15 a day, or
$450 a month, to guard his home from pos-
sible attack by whites who resent what they
term a “Negro invasion” in their residential
district.
The guarding by policemen began early
in May, and if it is continued two weeks
longer the city will have spent $1,S00.
Several times the sheds in the rear of Mr.
Hudlin’s home have been fired, and after that
the police guard was established at the cost
of the city. Five policemen are detailed to
guard the premises.
ALONG THE
COLOR LINE
273
*3 Twelve prominent residents of East
Hollywood, Cal., entered the home of Mr.
and Mrs. C. A. Bywater, Negroes, at 1206
Kingsley Drive, a fashionable neighborhood,
and ordered them to leave the house and
the neighborhood within thirty-six hours.
“I come from Texas,” said one of the
leaders, “where the Niggers have no rights.
You've got to get out.”
*3 While and colored newsboys had a race
riot at Memphis, Tenn., which it took
eighteen policemen to quiet.
^ It is said that the College of Physicians
and Surgeons, Bennett Medical College and
Yenncr Medical College, all of Chicago, will
in the future refuse to matriculate colored
st udents.
<3 The colored and white teachers are by
law compelled to attend teachers’ institutions
together in West Virginia. At the Cabell
County Teachers’ Institution, goaded to
desperation by the annoyance of white
school teachers, several of the young colored
women made public complaint to the super-
intendent. saying that they were annoyed
by being struck with paper wads and that
their protests had been received with
sneers. A committee was appointed to in-
vestigate the point and the State superin-
tendent called. The committee brought in
a resolution deploring the incident, but after
a bitter debate the. resolution was voted
down.
Dilliculties about voting continually recur
in the South, especially with regard to
primary election. A writer in the New
Orleans Slates says that it is “stated that
the names of Negroes had been discovered
on the registration rolls in the fifth ward.
In reference to this charge, 1 desire to say
that the shoe pinches on the other foot. 1
am prepared to show that in the last Janu-
ary primary election one of the men who
served in the polls as a commissioner for
the Good Government League is reported
in the records of the city board of health as
a Negro. It seems io me that the part of
wisdom should preclude people who live in
glass houses from throwing stones, and this
is exactly what the Goo Goos are doing when
they are attempting to hold the regulars
guilty of having Negroes on the registration
rolls.”
<3 In Kentucky the Jefferson County board
of education has raised an interesting ques-
tion as to the right of colored voters to vote
in an election for white school trustees.
The matter was referred to the attorney-
general by State Superintendent Hamlett
and the attorney-general advises that the
matter be settled in court, as he is a member
of the Slate board and would have to pass
on the question in that capacity if brought
before the State board.
It is contended that colored voters are
only allowed to vote for a colored visitor to
schools and not for trustees, for if they
could vote for white trustees then the door
would be opened for the election of Negro
trustees. The law distinctly provides that
only white trustees shall be elected and that
seems to settle the matter, but it will prob-
ably be taken to the courts for final
adjudication.
<1 By a bare majority the Garrison bill,
intended to bar Negro firemen from loco-
motives on the Georgia Railroad, passed the
House of Representatives, hut failed to pass
the Senate.
The bill prescribes an educational test for
firemen of engines on all railroads operating
in Georgia, a test which will virtually elimi-
nate the Negro, and it was fathered and sup-
ported by union firemen and other labor
organizations.
CJ The aldermen of Winston-Salem, N. C.,
have passed an ordinance segregating the
Negro population in East Winston. The
ordinance forbids Negroes to own or occupy
property on East Fourth Street, between
Depot Street and the city limits on the east.
It also forbids the whites from occupying
any property on Third Sireet from Depot
Street io Ridge Avenue. The fine for the
first day’s violation is $20, and $5 for each
subsequent day such premises are occupied.
Whether or not a city has a right to
segregate the whites and Negroes has never
been decided in North Carolina. The action
of the aldermen is based upon the action of
the State in segregating the white and Negro
schools.
*3 Two cases have recently arisen in New
York where delinquent colored girls sent to
correctional institutions have been refused
admittance in those institutions. One was
the case of Ethel Washington. 16 years old.
at Niagara Falls: the other the case of
Lillian Faggard, who was not criminal in
any sense, but did not want to live at home.
No correctional institution would take her.
274
THE
CRISIS
In Kansas City, Mo., the hospital board
recommended that white internes be installed
in the colored hospital because none
of the five young colored men who took the
examination for the four vacancies had met
the required 75 per cent. The president of
the board had the papers secretly re-exam-
ined and remarked by disinterested experts.
It was seen that No. 1, who had received
a grade of 30 per cent, on the part of the
visiting staff, had been given S9 per cent.;
No. 2, who had received 03 per cent., was
graded S3 per cent.; No. 3, who had been
given 55 per cent., was raised to 85% per
cent., and No. 4, whose grade was 63 per
cent., rose to 871/> per cent.
The colored men were appointed.
Charges are being made in Philadelphia
that colored men who pass civil-service
examination with high average seldom get
appointments. As a “flagrant example” of
the drawing of the “color line,” colored men
refer to the experience of W. J. Blonding,
220 W. Coulter Street, Germantown, who
stood fifth on the list of eligibles for water
inspector. Eight appointments were made,
Blonding, colored, being notified by letter,
his friends say, that he had been selected
among the others, that his salary would
be $900 a year, and that be was expected
to report on a certain day.
When he appeared he was told, according
to his friends, that the “head man” was not
in. He made a second call, and several
days later is said to have received a letter
that the place to which he had been ap-
pointed had been obtained by some one else.
“Upon demand for further reason for the
action,” one of his friends declares, “he
was told that he could not be allowed to
fill the position, which he merited and to
which he had been duly appointed, because
of his color.”
<2 Pennsylvania has a carefully devised
method of segregating poor' children and
foreigners and colored children in certain
public schools away from the rich and well-
to-do. This custom was changed in Pitts-
burgh recently, and as a result 200 of the
high-born children went on a strike at being
compelled to go to school with foreigners
and Negroes. They sat on the lawn all day.
Q Miss Rachel Brown of St. Louis is being
threatened with tar and feather because she
employs a colored lawyer to look after her
property.
<2 City Commissioner R. Braswell of Mont-
gomery, Ala., is not going to allow colored
and white people to see the same prize-
fighting pictures hereafter. It seems that
in a local show, while the Johnson-Flynn
fight was being called out, the building con-
tained several hundred people on the lower
floor while the galleries were reserved for
the blacks, and there were about 500 of them.
Whenever Johnson landed a neat one the
colored people above roared and the feeling
was ugly.
“It is disgraceful, it must stop,” exclaimed
the commissioner, “and I can assure you
it will not be permitted again. Negroes
cannot hear a matinee of this kind in the
same place with Caucasians.”
COURTS.
' j rHE effort of the white Elks to extermi-
nate the colored Elks is still going on.
The colored Elks, who have already spent
a good deal of money in litigation, declare
that they will fight it to the last ditch.
<2 In Sapulpa, Okla., suit for $1,000,000 has
been filed in the District Court here on be-
half of Charles Clayton, a Negro, who some
years ago married a Creek Indian woman,
against the Texas, Prairie and Gulf Pipe
Line Companies and B. B. Burnett, a local
banker and guardian for Clayton’s children.
Clayton seeks to recover title to oil lands
in the heart of the Glenn Pool district which
it is alleged belonged to his wife and a child
which was born ten hours previous to the
time the Creek rolls closed and died a few
hours later. According to a recent decision
of the Supreme Court, the father is sole heir
to the child’s estate, also that of his wife.
In the past it has been held that a non-
citizen could not inherit Creek property.
Fifty-three producing wells are on the prop-
erty, which is valued at $50,000,000, and
$950,000 worth of oil has been taken from
it, according to the suit.
*1 Two young white men have killed two
Negroes in Montgomery, Ala.
<2 At Brooksville, Ifla., eleven Negroes were
rescued from three deputy sheriffs by a
band of armed Negroes, who fired and
slightly wounded two of the officers. A
posse has gone in pursuit of the Negroes
and a serious clash is feared.
About a year ago J. H. Turner, a well-
known colored business man of Savannah,
Ga., was lured to a lonely spot in the woods,
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
275
murdered and his automobile stolen. The
crime was traced to two young white men.
One of them was convicted and sentenced to
lile imprisonment. lie appealed and on a
technicality the verdict was reversed and a
new trial ordered. At that trial both men
were acquitted, although tlie evidence was
conclusive. One of the justices of the
Supreme Court said that the “evidence
showed a shocking case of murder.” Both
the Savannah morning papers score the
verdict. The Press says:
“To allow men like these to go unwhipped
of justice is an outrage upon the community,
insult to the law and justice. The courts and
community have suffered from this verdict,
and yet we are powerless to do more than
protest. This, however, we will continue to
do.”
Four years ago Ira Perryman, white,
killed Philip Cook, a Negro, in Anniston,
Ala. The case has been fought through the
courts up to the Supreme Court of the
United States and has finally come back to
the city court, where Perryman is at last to
be tried for murder.
LYNCHINGS.
OINCE our last issue colored men have
^ been lynched and burned as follows:
Monroe Franklin at Russellville, Ark.,
accused of assaulting a woman; at Cum-
mings, Ga., Ed. Collins, accused of assisting
another colored man in assaulting a woman;
at Greensville, S. C., Brooks Gordon, ac-
cused of assaulting a woman; at Humboldt,
Tenn., Will, Cook, shot for refusing to dance
for some young white men; at Princeton,
W. Va., Walter Johnson, for attacking a
white girl. It is acknowledged in this latter
case that a mistake was probably made and
the wrong man killed. The press dispatch
says that the girl “was not injured, although
she is in a hysterical condition due to
fright.” In Memphis two white boys burned
a white tramp alive after pouring oil over
his clothing.
*3 The grand jury has indicted three men for
the lynching of a colored boy at
Columbus, Ga.
*3 Mobs have been chasing Negroes in
Gadsden, Ala., and Chattanooga, Tenn.
<3 Negroes have been killed by policemen in
Richmond, Va., Bessemer, Ala., Chicago, 111.,
Birmingham, Ala., Louisville, Ky., Charles-
ton, S. C., New York City and St. Louis, Mo.
FOREIGN.
"X/f’K. IIAK DAYAL has been appointed
professor of Indian philosophy and
Sanskrit at Stanford University, Palo Alto.
Cal.
The British Foreign Office has issued as a
“white paper” a pamphlet of over 100 pages
containing the diplomatic correspondence
between tlie British and Portuguese govern-
ments dealing with the recruitment of slave
labor for the plantations of San Thome in
Portuguese West Africa, which threatened
at one time to rival the scandals in the
rubber regions of the Congo.
The new regulations, according to Consul
Mackie, would leave nothing to be desired
if observed with a reasonable degree of im-
partiality and care, but the disappointing
manner in which the laws framed for the
benefit of the Angolan natives had been dis-
regarded in the past did not encourage the
hope that the helpless condition of these
natives would be much improved so long as
they were left, as at present, in complete
ignorance of their rights.
<1 General Luis Mena, who is leading the
revolt in Nicaragua, has for some time been
minister of war. For a long time Mena and
President Diaz were boon companions.
Mena is a colored man, stands six feet high,
is the idol of his soldiers and possesses a
breadth of view and grace of manner rare
in a man of so few advantages.
<i Charles Young, United States military
attache in Liberia, has been made a major
in (be United States army. This is his little
son’s picture.

MEN or THE
MONTH
, ffLATTwifK-^li
A BLACK BOY WHO IS KING.
T')AUDI CHUA, the thirty-seventh king
who has ascended the throne of
Uganda, was born only seventeen years ago.
Under the overlordship of the British Em-
pire, and with the advice of three native
regents, this boy rules over 4,000,000 black
folk in a territory as large as Xew England,
New York and Pennsylvania combined.
His kingdom is situated in Hast Central
Africa, in the region of the great lakes, on
tiie borders of the vast and beautiful Victoria
Xyanza. The land has had a curious history.
Either Egyptian civilization had its earliest
beginnings here and spread down the Nile,
or, starting further north, spread northward
and southward. At any rate here in Central
Africa one sees the Egyptian type in black
DAUDI CHUA, KING OF UGANDA, WITH HIS REGENTS
MEN OF THE
MONTH
277
laces, finds the same musical instruments and
boats. There is much legendary history cov-
ering the thousands of years between Egypt
an(i our day which cannot he recounted here.
The first modern king of Uganda, Kimera,
ascended the throne about 1400, and was
contemporary with Henry IV. of England
and Joan of Arc.
Since that day slavery, war and rapine
have swept over the land, and finally came
Mohammedanism, white explorers and Chris-
tianity. King Mutesa received Stanley and
HIAWATHA
GWENDOLEN
killed a white bishop, which finally resulted
in English conquest. But the conquest was
not complete and the result was that the
native dynasty was left in control. In 1S97
Mwanga, the last of the wild kings, was
deposed and Daudi Chua, his infant son,
ascended tlie throne. The young king is
receiving a modern education and seems a
serious-minded, earnest youth.
THE LATE SAMUEL COLERIDGE-TAYLOR
A GREAT MUSICIAN.
TWO children who must be very dear to
the hearts of colored America are left
fatherless to-day by the death of Samuel
Coleridge-Taylor, at the early age of 37.
The father of this distinguished Anglo-
African composer was an African surgeon of
Sierra Leone, who came to London to study
medicine and married an English lady of
excellent family. Samuel Coleridge-Taylor
showed his remarkable musical gift at the
age of 4. early began the study 01 the violin
and became a chorister at Si. Georges
Church, Croydon, when a boy. In 1S90 he
entered the violin department of the Royal
Academy of Music, where he also studied
composition under Sir Ailliers Stanford.
During his third year at the institute he
won the prize offered for the best composi-
tion. and in 1S94 was graduated with honors.
Mr. Coleridge-Taylor, at the time of his
death, was an associate of the Royal College
of Music, London; a professor in Trinity
College and Crystal Palace, London; con-
ductor of the Handel Choral Society and the
Rochester Choral Society, England. A few
months before his death Mr. Taylor became
associated with Mr. Laudon Ronald, princi-
pal of the Guildhall School of Music, where
he had charge of the choral choir, the orches-
tra and the opera.
As a composer Taylor was versatile and
prolific. Numbered among his works are
songs, pianoforte and violin pieces, with or-
chestral accompaniment, trios, quintets for
strings and clarinet, incidental music, sym-
278
THE
CRISIS
CLEO AND LEO
phony, orchestral and choral works. The
popularity of his early work, the “Hia-
watha” triology, served to divert attention
from his many other beautiful conceptions.
Likened to Grieg, who has by his Nor-
wegian themes created a style of his own,
and to Brahms, who has done so much with
the Hungarian folk music, Mr. Coleridge-
Taylor, intensely racial, found his deepest
inspiration in the Negro folk song. Char-
acteristic of the melancholy beauty, barbaric
color, charm of musical rhythm and vehe-
ment passion of the true Negro music, are
his symphonic pianoforte selections based
on Negro medolies from “Africa and Amer-
ica,” the “African Suite,” a group of piano-
forte pieces, the “African Romances”
(words by Paul L. Dunbar), the “Songs of
Slavery,” “Three Choral Ballads” and
“African Dances,” and a suite for violin and
pianoforte.
Mr. Coleridge-Taylor’s latest compositions
recently published are: “Othello,” a suite
for pianoforte, from the incidental music to
Sir Herbert Tree’s like-named production,
and which the London Music Times says
should live long after Sir Herbert Tree’s
production has became historical; the
“Hiawatha Ballet,” absolutely new music,
and his last choral work, “A Tale of Old
Japan,” which is being performed with great
success throughout England.
Mr. Coleridge-Taylor possessed a charm-
ing personality. He was an unassuming,
earnest man, sincere and enthusiastic in his
art. He leaves a widow, the daughter of
an English professor of music, and two
children, Hiawatha and Gwendolen.
OUR YOUNGEST AGENTS.
/^\NCE upon a time there lived in a West-
^ ern State a little boy and girl who
were twins. Their father was dead and their
widowed mother used to go twenty miles
away to teach so as to support her three
children, returning home once a week. Now
Leo and Cleo might have pouted and pined
and wished for things they did not have; but
instead they began to think what they could
do to help mother. So one day in 1911 a
letter came to The Crisis ollice asking if we
would like to have two agents in this Western
town, and that if so the 9-year-old twins
would like to try. Thus we gained the
youngest of our agents and we have them
yet. We are very proud of them and so is
their mother, we are sure. If there are other
little boys and girls who would like to help
their mothers and fathers perhaps they will
write us.
AN ORPHAN HOME.
HP WENTY-EIGHT years ago a white
woman, Almira S. Steele, came to Chat-
tanooga, Tenn., and started a home for needy
children. Since then she has cared for and
THE ORPHANS: BEFORE
MEN OF THE MONTH
279
MRS. STEELE AND THE ORPHANS: AFTER
educated 1,200 colored children, gathering
them in from the streets, living with them,
attending to them, teaching them. She has
had no easy way. Most of the funds for
the work Mrs. Steele has raised in the North,
although the city, until recently, appropri-
ated ninety-one cents a week for each inmate.
This year the city has stopped that appro-
priation and Mrs. Steele writes:
“I appeal to the city, county and State
officials as to whether it has paid to have
taken in over 1,200 needy ones to feed and
train in my way. I dare not ask private
individuals to take my part, for I am in a
very unpopular business, and people hate
to lose their social standing by espousing a
cause which is looked down upon, but I do
wonder why so many have voluntarily told
me they know our children from any others
in town because of their gentle manners,
good deportment and correct language. I
certainly never asked for or expected that
much, as I realize the work is only partly
done. I tried long ago to keep cows for
milk, but I lost twenty-seven in a short time;
so I gave that up. I tried hens and lost
fifty-four in a week.
“My first three buildings on this site, one
for boys, one for girls and an industrial
building, were burned just eighteen months
after they were dedicated. We were offered
the old Georgia Avenue schoolhouse, as it
was empty; there we were set on fire three
times in the night. I’ve lost five buildings by
fire at Summit, our country home, where we
spent fifteen summers. The ten-acre lot
there was donated by Mr. and Mrs. Burgess.
Besides the loss of the first three buildings
in town, I have lost three other wooden
buildings by fire, and none was insured. A
colored woman named Little tried many
years ago to send me to the penitentiary for
taking an orphan girl living with her from
a house of ill-repute, where she was waiting
on the white inmates. I sent the child off
at my expense to Atlanta University.
Through the kindness of the Rev. Dr. Bach-
man, who testified as to the child’s age, be-
cause the mother had been a servant in his
family, and he knew the girl was old enough,
according to law, to choose her own
guardian, I was released from the prisoner’s
bar and the girl was put under my care.”
This is the sort of battle that is daily
fighting in the South, and we are glad to
commend this tireless soldier of the common
good, who has worked so nobly and so long
in a great human cause. The Crisis would
be glad to forward any contribution to Mrs.
Steele’s work.
awakening ^ ver*V interes^n& article on
of races the “Awakening of the Col-
ored Races” appears in the
English scientific review called Bedrock.
Mr. Basil Thomson says:
“In the sense that no race now exists which
is not, in some degree, touched by the in-
fluence of Western civilization, the present
day may he said to be a fresh starting point
in the history of mankind. Whithersoever we
turn, the law of custom, which has governed
the unprogressive races for countless genera-
tions, is breaking down; the old isolation is
vanishing before railway and steamship com-
munication; alien laborers imported by Euro-
pean settlers are intermarrying with them;
and ethnologists of the future, having no
pure races left to examine, will have to fall
back upon hearsay evidence in their study
of the history of human institutions.
“The present population of the world is
believed to be about fifteen hundred millions,
of whom seven hundred millions are nomi-
nally progressive, and eight hundred millions
are	stagnant under ____________ .
the	law of custom.
It	is difficult to
choose terms that
even approach scien -
tific accuracy in
these generalizations,
for, as Mr. H. G.
Wells has remarked,
if we use the word
‘civilized,’ the Lon-
don ‘hooligan’ and
the ‘bowery tough’
immediately occur to
us; if the terms
‘stagnant’ and ‘pro-
gressive,’ how are we
to class the Parsee
gentleman and the
Sussex farm laborer?
The terms ‘white’
and ‘colored’ land us
in worse dilliculties, for there are Chinese
many shades whiter than the Portuguese.
Only in May last the liquor laws of South
Africa, which make the possession of liquor
by persons not of European descent illegal,
were stultified by a magistrate who decided
that a Turk born in Constantinople was an
Asiatic, and not entitled to the privileges of
European descent, and that a colored Por-
tuguese, charged with the same offense, was
a European. *	*	*
“it is probably safe to predict that the
rate of tlie more virile races will decline as
the change in their habits begins to affect
them. Jt has been stated that the European
will double his numbers in eighty years, the
Chinese in sixty and the African Negro in
forty; if this rough statement were even half
true, and the rate of increase were main-
tained, the outlook for men of European
descent would not be very bright; but, mak-
ing all deductions, it is still evident that
the overpopulation of the globe is within
sight unless some unforeseen agency inter-
venes to prevent it.
“In a very inter-
esting appendix to
an interesting hook,
Lord Cromer has
discussed the evi-
dence as to intermar-
riage between the
dominant and sub ject
races in classical
times. The real test
by which race hatred
is to be gauged • is
the test of intermar-
riage. If two races
live side by side for
a century or two
without any inter-
mingling, one might
say that the color
bar is a natural and
OPINION
281
not an artificial sentiment. As Lord Cromer
observes, it is certain that the marriage of
Homan citizens with foreigners was regarded
with great disfavor, and the offspring of
such marriages was considered illegitimate.
\ irgil condemns the marriage of Antony
and Cleopatra in unmeasured terms; Roman
society was scandalized by the relations of
Julius Cccsar with Cleopatra; Titus was
obliged to part with Queen Berenice. All
these cases were due rather to the pride of
Roman citizenship and to contempt for bar-
barians than to any color bar. Intermar-
riage did take place very frequently; the
Roman soldiers, who were taken prisoners
by the Parthians in B. C. 53, married native
wives, and though Horace considers this a
disgrace, lie would equally have regarded it
as disgraceful if they had settled on the Elbe
and married German wives, or on the Thames
and married British wives, for two lines
earlier he couples Britons and Parthians
together. No evidence has yet been found
of any color antipathy having been a bar
to intermarriage. Juvenal certainly re-
garded the black skin of the Ethiopian as
a physical defect, to be classed in the same
category as bandy legs, but Juvenal bespat-
ters all foreigners alike with his satire, irre-
spective of the color of their skins. *	*	*
‘‘Much turns upon the question whether
race antipathy is inherent, for when two races
are brought into contact and competition
there can be no middle course; either race
antipathy must disappear, or one breed of
man must dominate and extinguish the other.
Race hatred has seldom been dispassionately
studied. It is felt most strongly in the
United States and tlie West Indies; a little
less than strongly in the other British tropi-
cal colonies; in England itself it is much
weaker, and is confined generally to the edu-
cated classes who have lived in the tropics.
In France, Spain, Portugal, Holland and
Italy it is scarcely noticeable. One cannot
say, however, that it is confined to races of
Teutonic descent, for the Germans and the
Dutch who live in the tropics scarcely seem
to feel it. It is, moreover, a sentiment of
modern growth. In the fifteenth and six-
teenth centuries Englishmen do not seem to
have thought colored people their inferiors
by reason of their color; the only race hatred
in the middle ages was anti-Semitic, and this
was probably due to the Crusades. The
color bar seems to have dated only from the
time of slavery in the West Indies, and vet
the Romans, the Spaniards, the Portuguese
and the Dutch, who were the great slave
owners in history, do not seem to have felt it.
Shakespeare saw nothing repulsive in the
marriage of Desdemona with a man of color,
or he would not have dared to invest Othello
with a mantle of heroism; iago’s disparage-
ment of Othello would have been far more
pointed and bitter in its personalities if
color prejudice could have appealed to the
audience. Early in the sixteenth century
Sieur Paulinier de Gonville of Normandy
gave his heiress in marriage to Essomeric,
a pure-blooded Brazilian, and no one thought
that she was hardly treated. History is full
of romantic examples of the marriage of
Europeans with colored women—to cite no
more than de Betheneourt with his Guanche
princess, Tories with Dona Marina, and John
Rolfe with Pocahontas; and even in these
days women of Anglo-Saxon blood have
been known to mate with Chinese, Arabs.
Kalfirs and even Negroes, despite the active
opposition of their relations. It is, of course,
well known that certain races will fuse less
readily than others. East Indians, intro-
duced for working the sugar plantations,
have been living among the Fijians for
thirty years, and cases of intermarriage be-
tween them may be counted on the fingers
of one hand, while, on the other hand, Chin-
ese and Negroes in the same group of islands
marry native wives and have children.
“At the dawn of the twentieth century we
see the racial future of mankind through a
glass darkly, and in our time we cannot hope
to see it face to face. But certain features
are already clear. A white skin cannot for-
ever he a sort of patent of nobility. Race
prejudice does not die so hard as one would
think. When the European finds himself
in a state of political inferiority he is ready
enough to drop his racial pride, and to adapt
himself to circumstances. The Portuguese
of the sixteenth century paid their court to
the ‘Emperor of MonomotnpaJ a Bantu
chieftain, into whose power they had fallen,
and the English sailor of the forties, who.
when he landed in Fiji, called the natives
•Niggers’ with an expletive prefix, might very
soon he found playing body servant to a
chief who spoke of him contemptuously as
buy white man.’ *	*	*
“There is nothing as yet to encourage the
belief that the white and the colored races
will coalesce to produce an intermediate
type, but it is a common error to believe that
282
THE
CRISIS
intermarriage on a large scale would
be physically disastrous. The half-caste off-
spring of such mixed marriages is supposed
to inherit the vices of both races, and none
of the virtues. In so far as this accusation
is true, the social ostracism in which these
people are condemned to live would be suffi-
cient to account for it. Disowned by their
fathers, unrestrained by the customs of their
mothers’ folk, it could scarcely be otherwise;
but those who have lived with Eurasians and
with half-castes of many races agree that
in aptitude they are equal to the average
European, when they have the same educa-
tion and opportunity, and that there is no
physical deterioration in the offspring of
the marriages of half-castes inter se.
“In Java, where the Dutch regard them
as their social equals, they are eligible for
the highest positions in the colony.
“In tropical countries the line of caste will
soon cease to be the line of color: there, as
in temperate zones, wealth will create a new
aristocracy recruited from men of every
shade of color. In India and China it is
possible that the process may be accelerated,
for the labor unrest and the high wages in
Western countries may drive manufacturers
to transfer their capital to countries where
labor is still cheap, plentiful and efficient.
Even in the great cities of Europe and
America we may find men of Hindu and
Chinese and Arab origin controlling industry
with their wealth, as Europeans now control
the commerce of India and China, but with
this difference—that they will be wearing the
dress and speaking the language which will
have become common to the whole commer-
cial world, and as the aristocracy of every
land will be composed of every shade of
color, so will the masses of the workers. In
one country the majority of the workers will
be black or brown, in another white; but
white men will work shoulder by shoulder
with black and feel no degradation. In
many parts of the world they do this already.
There will be the same feverish pursuit of
wealth, the same struggle between labor and
capital, but all races will participate in the
distribution of wealth instead of a favored
few. The world will then be neither so
pleasant nor so picturesque a place to live
in, and by the men of the coming centuries
the Victorian Age may come to be cherished
tenderly as an age of romance, of awakening
and of high adventure. Perhaps the histo-
rians of that day may speak of it as we
speak of the Elizabethan, and may date the
new starting point in the history of mankind
from the decay of the law of custom.”
m
politics. ^Ir* Roosevelt has again ex-
plained in the Outlook the atti-
tude of his party toward the colored man.
The editors of the Outlook give the explana-
tion this rather extraordinary endorsement:
“He has, in fact, taken the ground of rea-
son and justice—the ground that in a repre-
sentative government no man is to be
accepted as a representative unless he does
in fact represent the community from which
he comes; and no representative is to be
rejected if he does in fact represent such
community. It is perfectly notorious that
the Negro delegates who have claimed to
represent the extreme South in Republican
conventions have not truly represented the
community; in the Progressive convention
every' Negro delegate accepted did represent
the community and came with the good will
of his white neighbors.”
If anyone will substitute in the above
statement “white community” for “com-
munity” the meaning of the editors will be
perfectly clear.
The colored members of the Progressive
convention have sent out a circular in which
they declared that: “The charge of ffily-
whitism, against the National Progressive
convention is false. Arkansas elected a
mixed delegation, with five colored delegates,
four of whom attended the convention; Ten-
nessee sent one, Kentucky one, Maryland
two and West Virginia two. The charge of
‘lily-whitism’ was made for the sole and
specific purpose of engendering political
strife and embarrassment, and with the hope
of alienating the colored vote. No heed, nor
the slightest, credence, should be given to the
numberless unfair, distorted and malicious
reports of a hostile press, sent out against
the national convention of the Progressive
party—a convention whose genuine enthusi-
asm, numerical strength, high-class delegates,
brainy, experienced leaders, challenge com-
parison with any similar body ever assem-
bled within the annals of our country.”
The reception of this situation by the
colored press has been varied. The oldest
colored paper in the country, the Christian
Recorder, says:
“Not only did the Colonel do a wrong, but
emphasized it by trying to explain it, and his
explanation in a nutshell is this:
OPINION
283
“ ‘In the South I want no Negro party, and
I won’t encourage a single Negro from that
section.’ In the North it is all right for
0,000 Negroes of Rhode Island to have a
delegate, but 600,000 Negroes in Mississippi
cannot have one, no. not even one. We are
informed that the Negroes did not contest
lor all the delegates from Mississippi. They
wanted only reasonable recognition; they
were not trying to monopolize the party or
make a Negro parry. Though they repre-
sented the great bulk of Republicans and
Progressives, they wanted only a paltry few
delegates. But Roosevelt, the people's man,
said no—they could not even have one dele-
gate. Does anybody believe that one or two
delegates out of twenty in Mississippi, and
one or two from Florida and Alabama, could
be interpreted as meaning that there was a
new Negro party forming?”
The next oldest paper, the Georgia
Baptist, quotes this analogy:
“Once, while we were in Augusta, the
Augusta Herald came out in one of its issues,
delivering itself in no uncertain terms on the
race question. After so delivering itself, it
declared that Negroes who subscribed to the
Herald knew that these were its sentiments,
and that if they could not subscribe with
ibis knowledge they were not wanted. Now
the sentiments expressed by the Herald were
substantially those entertained by the
Chronicle, but the colored people of Augusta
had the choice between a paper which openly
declared its prejudices, as well as practiced
them, and one which practiced them without
openly declaring them. Considered from a
race standpoint only, the colored people in
this country are similarly placed, as regards
their choice between the Progressive and the
Republican party in the present campaign.”
The Norfolk (Va.) Journal and Guide
says:
“At first the new Progressive party looked
like the solution of the whole problem until
Colonel Roosevelt expressed the wish .that no
colored men in the South should have any
part in the birth of the new party. That in
itself is enough to give the ‘lily-white’ en-
thusiastics more encouragement than they
have received throughout the whole Taft
administration, and Mr. Taft is the daddy
of all the lily-whites.”
The Richmond Planet adds:
“President Taft has been criticised, but
he is ‘an angel of light’ to the colored man
as compared to the brutal declarations ol the
brilliant Progressive candidate from Caster
Bay, N. Y.”
The New York Time>•. after an exhaustive
correspondence, rinds very little support for
Mr. Roosevelt among the colored people of
the country, although there is some.
The Macon iGa.) Sacs (white) says that
“it is a rare thing for the Negro vote to be
classified as an unknown quantity in a
national campaign; but the situation is such
this year that the Negro voters are at sea
in spite of themselves.”
The Charleston Sctr> ami Courier has its
usual spasm:
"The news dispatches state that the Rhode
Island Progressive executive committee gave
a dinner to Colonel Roosevelt on Friday
evening. It was not a man’s meeting only.
There were three women present; one of
them, it is slated, being the daughter of
ex-Governor Garvin. At the table with
Colonel Roosevelt, says the report, sat.
among others. Julius Mitchell, of Provi-
dence, and John Matthews, of Newport, both
Negroes.
“The South has no objection to Mr. Roose-
velt dining with whom he desires. He can
eat with his horses if it pleases liim.”
S
Commenting on recent revela-
CORRUPTION.	,	•	* o .l
tions ot corruption in bouth-
em politics, the Southwestern Christian
Advocate remarks that:
“One needs only, however, to read the
more recent accounts of white primaries to
note that, although the Negro has been
barred from politics in the South, corruption
and buying of votes still prevail. What shall
we say of the white man during a recent
campaign in the State of Mississippi where
the highest and best were accused, not only
of corrupt political methods, but of buying
and selling votes, and when lying became an
every-day charge? What shall we say of
the recent campaign in the State of South
Carolina where all manner of political cor-
ruption has been alleged? What shall we
say of the status in the city of New Orleans
where, at ihe time of this writing, the full
force erf the city police is standing ready to
quell any riot at the ballot box, for it is
alleged that there may be irregularities and
other corruption of the ballot? The whole
story is amusing. It has two effects upon
the Negro: The Negro, in the first place.
284
THE
CRISIS
laughs at this pharasaical boast of the white
man of his absolute freedom from corrup-
tion. On the other hand, the Negro has a
feeling of resentment because of the hypo-
crisy and downright conceit by which he has
been politically throttled. It was not in the
interest of a pure ballot, per se. that the
Negro was disfranchised; it was simply a
part of the continuous and persistent pro-
gram to keep the Negro under. The Negro
is not altogether a fool. He can see these
inconsistencies and can puncture the loud
boasts and pharasaical claims of his more
favored brothers and then deep down in his
heart the Negro says: ‘What inconsistency !’
But statesmanship and government based
upon such deceit and unholy injustice can-
not be permanent. The Negro knows this.
The wheels of the gods grind slowly, but
they grind, nevertheless, and the Negro can
afford, with prayer and patience, to abide his
time/’
Tilt BAR
ASSOCIATION.
Seldom if ever in this coun-
try has color discrimination
called forth such emphatic
and well-nigh universal disapproval as the
recent action of the American Bar Associa-
tion; the reason being that a clear-cut issue
of color unclouded by extraneous matter was
forced.
The Philadelphia Ledger said on the eve
of the convention:
“Just as the Progressive party began its
exemplification of equal rights for all by
excluding Negro citizens of the South from
any part in its councils, so the Bar Asso-
ciation, after it has elected three Negroes,
lives up to its name by barring them out.
If the association in its meeting next week
does not repudiate the wholly indefensible
and un-American procedure of its executive
committee, let the American Bar Association
forfeit its name as well as its title to the
respect and confidence of all .right-thinking
Americans.”
The New York Evening World remarks
that:
“Lawyers are queer animals. One would
suppose that a class of professional men who
depend for support and reputation largely
upon the respect and confidence of the com-
munity would wish to be popular. Appar-
ently they don’t care whether they are popu-
lar or not. And the fact is that they are not.
“The efforts of the American Bar Asso-
ciation to throw out three Negro lawyers
from its membership have met with no sym-
pathy from the public. On the other hand,
Attorney-General Wickersham’s insistence
that the standing of the colored lawyers
should be recognized has received general
approval.
“If the lawyers were as careful about some
of their other associations as they are about
consorting with dark-skinned members of
their own profession, there might be less ot
the widespread feeling of cynical mistrust
that undoubtedly exists toward them. A
little of this commendable fastidiousness
practiced in professional matters where a
color line marks the boundary of shadiness
would become them far better than the
present intemperate exhibition of race
prejudice.”
The.Utica Herald-Despatch declares:
*‘It does not seem probable that the Ameri-
can Bar Association will ever be able to
live down the disgrace of its miserable mis-
handling of the issue and erase the blot upon
its escutcheon.”
The Rochester Democrat says:
“The association didn’t take time to ex-
plain its position or answer any questions
when it passed the shameful resolution. The
only conclusion possible is that for once a
majority of the members were so conscious
of having no case that they wouldn’t even
make a pretense of presenting it.”
The New York Evening Mail is sarcastic:
“If the Bar Association would expel a
couple of hundred of its members with dusky
records, instead of three honest lawyers with
dusky faces, the public would applaud its
action.”
From the West the Chicago Tribune notes
that:
“There are 10,000,000 Negroes in the
American republic, one-ninth of our whole
population, and they cannot and will not
be kept indefinitely in a condition of isola-
tion. Those who prove themselves fit for
the learned professions or fit to serve
society’s needs in any capacity should be
given encouragement and recognition in that
work. The American Bar Association has
set a bad precedent.”
Says the Troy Record:
“Through the adoption of the resolution
there is a likelihood that few blacks will be
OPINION
285
admitted to the association in the future.
Pace prejudice is less in evidence in this
country than ever before. But tlie narrow-
ness which discriminates against estimable
people because of their color still exists. It
is to he hoped that the time will come when
every citizen of this broad land will be
treated according to his merits, not accord-
ing to a color which is only skin deep.”
Even the Southern papers are not satis-
fied. The Macon Telegraph says:
“This virtually shuts the doors against
Negro lawyers while disingenuously dodging
the color question. A straight-out resolution
for or against admission would have been
more just as well as more honest.”
The Louisville Courier-Journal speaks this
strong, true word:
“The three Negroes who are already mem-
bers of the American Bar Association are
men who have won recognition in their
chosen work. There is not the slightest
evidence that they are not* creditable to the
bar in every way. The adoption of a reso-
lution isolating them as undesirable is. an
indefensible insult to unoffending humanity,
but it is even more objectionable as service
of notice that in so far as may be the door
of hope in the legal profession is to be
closed to Negroes, in violation of the spirit
of the republic, the Constitution and the
times. Surely lawyers should be the last to
do that which is essentially lawless, and a
body of lawyers made up of men from every
State ought to be ashamed to tell the world
that in America the Negro is still denied a
square deal.”
THE BUSINESS
LEAGUE.
The meeting of the Negro
Business League in Chicago
has brought two important
comments upon its objects. All papers
praise its work and general attitude, but the
Chicago Evening Post says of Mr. Washing-
ton’s advice:
"While it is a very useful thing to have
Mr. Washington preaching free will and fujl
responsibility to the colored people, it would
be a very great mistake for the white com-
munity to regard this as the last word on
the subject. For it is not true in any sense
whatever that the colored community is
wholly and entirely responsible for the vice
and crime which appear now and then in
its midst.
“For one thing a good deal of the vice iu
the ‘colored belt’ is white man’s vice, thrust
there by the authorities against the protest
of the colored people. But the thing runs
deeper than that. Vice and crime are in
large measure the result of idleness, of
irregular employment, and even of regular
employment that is underpaid and exhaust-
ive. It would be fatuous lor the white com-
munity to deny its responsibility, in very
large measure, for the economic conditions
under which thousands of Negro men and
women struggle right here in Chicago. Trade
unions close their doors to colored men; the
vast majority of employments are closed
absolutely to them; even the American Bar
Association threatens to draw a social and
semi-professional line against them.
“But these are disagreeable truths and we
all shirk them when we can. If Dr. Wash-
ington rather encourages us to shirk them
by putting the emphasis where he does, there
is another great leader of the colored people
who does not. Professor W. E. B. Du Bois
in his books and his journal, The Crisis,
holds up courageously, month in and month
out, the other side—our side—of the picture.
Forcefully and yet with a quiet reserve which
is granted to few polemicists, Dr. Du Bois
thrusts home upon the conscience of the
American people the consciousness that the
colored problem cannot be solved by the
colored man alone.”
The Chicago Public also declares that
the advocates of protest and higher training
among colored people “see that the Negro
cannot gain anything more than a material
and partial victory by becoming more and
more self-sufficing. Two camps of self-
sufficing and self-regarding peoples will
never constitute a democracy. Every white
advance in the conception of social justice
must be shared with the Negro. The Negro
who is graduated from a college must not
be allowed to take Dr. Washington’s advice
to go South and start a brickyard, if he has
academic abilities that can be employed in
other and more ideally fruitful ways. The
white unions, for instance, must cease their
suicidal and immoral policy of discouraging
or excluding Negro members. The Negroes
must not meet such exclusion with a self-
sufficient iWell, I shall achieve in some other
way.' They must insist on achieving in that
particular—by insisting on admission to
every union that claims to be labor.
"To achieve the proper solution of this
286
THE
CRISIS
problem, in short, simply means that whites
as well as Negroes shall be guided by ideals
as well as by opportunism, shall have the
courage of their lip service to spiritual
realities, shall either admit that they do not
believe in democracy at all but only in the
struggle for existence, or else pursue their
achievement of democracy in the only way
possible, by the frank recognition of and
action upon the spiritual implications of
democracy and self-consciousness.”
the	Three papers—North, East and
jubilee	South—unite in a demand upon
Congress that the bill for the
Negro semi-centennial for emancipation be
passed.
The Los Angeles (Cal.) Journal says:
“Only one valid objection can be urged
against the bill of Congressman Fitzgerald
appropriating $250,000 for an exposition to
celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of Negro
emancipation in this country. The sum
asked is too small for the occasion. The
exposition should not be a paltry one. It
should be made as near as possible complete
in every line of labor and all-comprehensive
in its scope; ample in extent to show both
what the Negro has been able to achieve in
his fifty years of freedom and what guaran-
tees he gives of industry and of art for
the years to come.”
The Birmingham (Ala.) Aye-Herald re-
marks that:
“Surely, in this age of appropriations for
expositions, the sum of $250,000 should be
voted to enable the Negroes to organize an
exposition that will show what they have ac-
complished in fifty years of freedom.”
A staff writer on the New York Times
declares:
“The sum asked for is not large and the
occasion is important. The Negroes have not
asked for much at any time and they have
not been treated with great liberality in
matters of appropriations from the public
treasury. There is much objection to the
appropriation of public funds for the hold-
ing of expositions, but such appropriations
have been made for many expositions that
were not more meritorious really than the
exposition which the Negroes would now hold
to show how they have prospered in this
land, and it would seem to be good policy
and fair treatment to give them wbat they
want.”
mulattoes. The H^'ures o£ \he Uniled
States census showing that, at
least, one-fifth of the colored population of
the United States has white blood has
brought varying comments. The Christian
Iiecorder says:
“Now, this census is very interesting for
several reasons. First, it shows conclusively
that race mixture is progressing more
rapidly in those States where there is
a law prohibiting intermarriage, as in the
South, and less rapidly where intermarriage
is permitted. It is conclusive, therefore, that
race mixture is not the result of race inter-
marriage. It is also shown that in those
States where the Negro woman and her off-
spring are hot protected by laws regulating
cohabitation and bastardy there is greatest
increase, as in Georgia. The whole theory
of protection of the white race by permitting
it to prey on the black is seen to be unsound
by these figures. In the very place where the
mulatto is least wanted, i. e.} in the South,
there the evidences of race mixture seem to
be growing most rapidly.
“But we are convinced that these figures
do not tell the whole story. If the definition
of mulatto here given is adhered to, we are
honestly convinced that at least 1,000.000
more ‘mulattoes’ can be found.”
The Manchester (Conn.) Herald thinks
that:
“Eventually the pure colored blood in the
United States will become practically extinct
and mulattoes will grow white.”
Dr. Pierce Kintzing, of Baltimore,
acknowledges that scientific tests for Negro
blood are of little if any value “beyond the
third generation.”
m
<3 At Cuba, Ala., a Negro por:er, B. Harris,
risked liis life to save that of Mr. Robertson,
an old gentleman who was crossing the
track in front of a passenger train, and who,
miscalculating the distance, was in imminent
danger of being run over. The engineer did
not see the old man until the train was on
him. The Negro leaped to the middle of the
track, grabbed Mr. Robertson, and threw him
out of the way of the train.
Mr. Robertson was uninjured. The porter
ha6 been in the service of the company for
several years and has been warmly com-
mended by the citizens for his heroic act.
EDITORIAL

iiiiniiiiii»niiiiiiiiMiiimiinimiiiiiuiiiiinimn»niim»nnniinmim
OF CHILDREN.
HIS is the Children’s
Number, and as it has
grown and developed in
the editor's hesitating
hands, it has in some
way come to seem a
typical rather than a special number.
Indeed, there is a sense in which all
numbers and all words of a magazine
of ideas must point to the child—to that
vast immortality and wide sweep and in-
finite possibility which the child repre-
sents. Such thought as this it was that
made men say of old as they saw baby
faces like these that adorn our pages
this month:
“And whosoever shall offend one of
these little ones •	•	• it is better
for him that a millstone were hanged
about his neck, and he were cast into
the sea.”
OF THE GIVING OF LIFE.
AND yet the mothers and fathers
and the men and women of our
race must often pause and ask:
Is it worth while?
Ought children be born to us?
Have we a right to make human souls
face what we face to-day ?
The answer is clear: if the great bat-
tle of human right against poverty,
against disease, against color prejudice
is to be won. it must be won not in our
day. but in the day of our children's
children. Ours is the blood and dust of
battle, theirs the rewards of victory. If
then they are not there because we have
not brought them to the world, then we
have been the guiltiest factor in con-
quering ourselves. It is our duty then
to accomplish the immortality of black
blood in order that the day may come
in this dark world when poverty shall
be abolished, privilege based on individ-
ual desert, and the color of a man’s
skin be no bar to the outlook of his soul.
OF THE SHIELDING ARM.
IF then it is our duty as honest col-
ored men and women battling for
a great principle to bring not aim-
less rafts of children to the world, but
as many as. with reasonable sacrifice, we
can train to largest manhood, what in
its inner essence shall that training be.
particularly in its beginning? Our
first impulse is to shield our children
absolutely. Look at these happy little
innocent faces: for most of them there is
as yet no shadow, no thought of a color
line. The world is beautiful and good,
and real life is joy. But we know only
28S
THE CRISIS
loo well that beyond all the disillusion-
ment and hardening that lurk for every
human soul there is that extra hurting
which, even when unconscious, with
fiendish refinement of cruelty waits on
each corner to shadow the joy of our
children: if they are backward or timid,
there is the sneer; if they are forward,
there is repression; the problems of
playmates and amusements are infinite,
and street and school and church have
all that extra hazard of pain and temp-
tation that spells hell to our babies.
The first temptation then is to shield
the child; to hedge it about that it
may not know and will not dream.
Then, when we can no longer wholly
shield, to indulge and pamper and cod-
dle, as though in this dumb way to
compensate. From this attitude comes
the multitude of our spoiled, wayward,
disappointed children; and must we not
blame ourselves? For while the motive
was pure and the outer menace un-
doubted, is shielding and indulgence the
way to meet it?
m
OF THE GRIM THRUST.
SOME parents realizing this, leave
their children to sink or swim in
this sea of race prejudice. They
neither shield nor explain, but thrust
them forth grimly into school or street,
and let them learn as they may from
brutal fact. Out of this may come
strength poise, self-dependence, and
out of it, too, may come bewilderment,
cringing deception and self-distrust. It
is, all said, a brutal, unfair method, and
in its way as bad as shielding and in-
dulgence. Why not rather face the
facts and tell the truth? Your child
is wiser than vou think.
m
THE FRANK TRUTH.
TIIE truth lies ever between ex-
tremes. It is wrong to introduce
the child to race consciousness
prematurely. It is dangerous to let that
consciousness grow spontaneously with-
out intelligent guidance. With every
step of dawning intelligence explana-
tion—frank, free guiding explanation—
must come. The day will dawn when
mother must explain gently but clearly
why the little girls next door do not
want to play with “Niggerswhat the
real cause is of the teachers’ unsym-
pathetic attitude, and how people may
ride on the backs of street cars and the
smoker end of trains; and still be people,
honest high-minded souls.
EDITORIAL
289
Kemember, too, that in such frank
explanation you are speaking in nine
cases out of ten to a good deal clearer
understanding than you think, and that
the child mind has what your tired soul
may have lost faith in—the power and
the glory.
fS
THE POWER AND THE GLORY.
OUT of little unspoiled souls rise
up wonderful resources and
healing balm. Once the colored
child understands the world’s attitude
and the shameful wrong of it. you have
furnished it with a great life motive—
a power and impulse toward good, which
is the mightiest thing man has. How
many white folks would give their own
souls if they might graft into their chil-
dren's souls a great, moving, guiding
ideal!
"With this power there comes in the
transfiguring soul of childhood the
glory: the vision of accomplishment—
the lofty ideal. Once let the strength
of the motive work, and it becomes the
life task of the parent to guide and
shape .the ideal; to raise it from resent-
ment and revenge, to dignity and self-
respect, to breadth and accomplishment.
to human service; to beat back every
thought of cringing and surrender.
Here, at last, we can speak with no
hesitating, with no lack of faith, For
we know that as the world grows better
there will be realized in our children's
lives that for which we fight unfalter-
inglv but vainly now.
m
THE SHIFTY AMERICAN BAR.
X popular imagination the
drawing of the color line
is a solemn performance
done after grave deliber-
ation by perfectly un-
selfish men, for lofty
purpose and for vast contemplative ends.
In the face of such conception what
shall be said at the trickery, hung and
chicanery that has marked the drawing
of racial lines in the American Bar
Association 1 Why should there be such
hiding and deception ? Is somebody
ashamed of something? Is it a discredit-
able and disreputable thing to say to a
man: “If you are black you cannot join
the American Bar Association?%9 If it
is not a nasty and unworthy discrimina-
tion to say this, why not say it flatly
and first, instead of:
1. Hushing the matter up.
f
290
THE CRISIS
2.	Asking the colored man “quiet-
ly” to resign.
3.	Seeking to break law and pre-
cedent in declaring a member
not a member, but a "‘candi-
date” for membership.
4.	Endless and disingenuous ex-
planations, avowing the broad-
est charity and highest motives.
5.	The sending out of new mem-
bership blanks calling for infor-
mation as to the “race and sex”
of candidates before the asso-
ciation had authorized such
action.
6.	The admission that such blanks
were sent without authority, but
that the matter would be duly
reported when it never was
reported.
T. A secret bargain which one of
the most prominent lawyers in
the United States thus describes:
“The resolution was presented
by ex-President and ex-Secre-
tary of "War Dickinson, second-
ed by an Illinois man, favored
by Wickersham, and then the
previous question was instantly
moved—all evidently in pur-
suance of a prearranged plan.
I need say no more than that
after about fifteen minutes of
absolute riot the chairman
(Fraser of Indiana, put into
the chair by Gregory, as I think,
because even Gregory was not
willing to do what was about to
be done) declared the resolution
adopted and declared the meet-
ing adjourned. What was actu-
ally said or done in the interval
it is impossible to tell. A dozen
or twenty men were on their
feet constantly yelling for re-
cognition by the chair, and the
exclusionist gang was yelling
1 question !* ‘ question ! * all over
the hall, and it was simply a
mob. So far as I could judge,
when the question was finally
put on the resolution, after I
had got recognized for a point
of order which the chair con-
ceded but gave us no benefit
of, there were about 50 ‘noes*
in a meeting of about 500.”
In the name of civilization, what were
450 men so ashamed of that they could
not step into the light of day and do
frankly and openly that which took
three official lies, two infractions of the
i
EDITORIAL
291
it
m
common law, a corrupt bargain and a
“mobM to allow the associated bar of
the nation to accomplish?
Does anyone suspect that here, as
elsewhere, in this land of the free, a
number of eminent gentlemen wished
opportunity to do a dirty trick in the
dark so as to stand in the light and yell:
‘We give the black man every chance
and yet look at him!"
B
VITAL STATISTICS.
VERY once in a while
some social student turns
his attention to the
Negro problem and an-
nounces that he proposes
to study it—for a few
days. In such cases The Crisis is accus-
tomed to suggest literature and other
matter with the idea, not of influencing
the student's conclusions, but of im-
pressing the size of the undertaking to
which he so lightly turns. In some
cases this does good. In the case of Mr.
Charles Stelzle it did no good. Mr.
Stelzle, who is “Executive Secretary of
the Home Missions Council," announced
his intention last year of looking black
men over. This year, in the midst of a
busy life, he has thrown off an essay
which has been published from New
York to California, in which he calmly
announces “that the death rate among
Negroes is increasing, whereas it is de-
creasing among whites." This extra-
ordinary statement has been strewn over
the United States and it is a flat and
glaring falsehood.
In the Census of IS90. Vital and
Social Statistics (Part I. page 30), and
in the Census of 1900. Yol. Ill (Vital
Statistics, part I, page 69), there are
the following figures for colored people:
				1S90	1900
Death	rates	in	registration area.	.32.40	30.2
Death	rates	in	registration cities.	.33.0$	31.1
Death	rates	in	registration States.	.29.50	26.2
Here is the clearest sort of proof that
the Negro death rate is declining
steadily.
If Mr. Stelzle had had time to go a
bit further he would have found the
following figures in the Census
Mortality Statistics of 190S (page 26).
Death rates of Negroes in selected
registration cities:
1901-5.........................28.4
190S- .........................26.2
In other words, because a busy man
was too careless to find out what he was
talking about, a miserable falsehood is
spread from ocean to ocean.
(Adapted from the folk talcs of the Banyoro Negroes in Uganda, Central Africa, as reported
by George Wilson in Sir Harry Johnston ’s ‘ * Uganda Protectorate.”)
R. HARE and Mr. Tortoise were, of course, great friends. Well,
one nice warm day, when the sun was very hot in the thick
African forest, they went out together a-lninting food, fur
they were very hungry. They walked and talked and talked
and walked, when suddenly Mr. Tortoise stopped.
“Hello!” said Mr. Tortoise, pointing ahead.
“Well, I never!” answered Mr. Haro, beginning to scamper, for there
right before them arose in the air, in one tall, slim column, a nice tall white-
ant hill.
Now everybody in Africa knows what sweet morsels fat white ants are.
and you can believe that Mr. Hare and Mr. Tortoise were overjoyed at the
sight of the hill and lost little time getting to it. Carefully they dug a nice
little hole at the bottom of the hill and then sat down patiently to await
the coming out of the ants.
As Mr. Hare waited he got so hungry that he began to reckon that
after all there would be just about enough ants on that hill for Mr. Hare
himself, and it seemed a shame to give up any of this tine food to a great
sleepy tortoise.
So greedy Mr. Hare began to look about with one eye, keeping the other
on the ant hill. Pretty soon Mr. Tortoise fell sound asleep just as Mr. Hare,
pricking up his cars, heard some of his friends going through the forest.
Tie ran quickly to them and asked them to carry the sleepy tortoise into tin-
tall grass, where Mr. Hare knew it would be hard for him to crawl out.
“But be careful not to hurt him.
When the tor-
tile way. Mr. Hare
and ate until he
die. and then crept
Tortoise, awaking
grass, had a long
get out. When at
hausted. he arrived
there was nothing
was gone,
friend,” said Mr.
“I'll be even with
crawled off home,
him and made a
“My dear old
“how glad T am to
feared you were
escaped by tin*
’ said Mr. Hare.
toise was out ol
sat down and ate
could hardly wad-
off home. Poor Mr.
in the tall thick
hard journey to
last, late and* ox-
at the ant hill, lo!
left and Mr. Hare
“So ho! my tine
Tortoise angrily,
you yet,” and he
Mr. ITare met
great fuss,
fellow!” he cried,
see you safe! I
dead. I myself
merest chance.
MR. HARE
293
Three .spears grazed me!*’ and Mr.
Hare pointed to a very small scratch
on his soft side.
"Humph,’*" said Mr. Tortoise,
busily making his bed.
"We must not go to that ant hill
again.” said Mr. Hare, licking his
chops.
"Humph.” said Mr. Tortoise as he
went to sleep.
Sow Mr. Tortoise knew full well
that early in the morning Mr. Hare
would make a beeline to the ant hill
for breakfast. Sure enough, up
jumped Mr. Hare at dawn and
slipped away. Xo sooner was he out
of sight, however, than up jumped
Mr. Tortoise and also crept quickly
away to his friends.
"Wait for him.” he told them.
'and when he has his head deep in the hole pounce on him.	,	,
But Mr. Tortoise was kind hearted, and he remembered that Mr Hare nad
been careful not to let his friends injure him when they carried him to the
jungle. So he added:
“But don’t kill him.”	. .	,
“Oh, but we like rabbit—we want to eat him!* cried the mends.
“Very well,” said Mr. Tortoise, “but if you kill him quickly he jull
l>e tough. You must take him home and make a big pot read>. ia t e«.
with fine oil and salt and nice herbs. Put Mr. Hare in it. but lea\e a o e in
the cover so that you may add cold water from time to time. oi it >01
let the oil get hot it will spoil the meat. So be very careful and not let
it boil.”	, T
The friends of the tortoise did exactly as they were toe. * ust a^
Mr. Hare was finishing the nicest breakfast imaginable, and stopping between
mouthfuls to chuckle over the outwitting of the tortoise, he was su en .
seized from behind, and despite his
frantic struggles hurried through the
forest and dropped, splash! into a big
pot of oil and herbs. Salt was added
and the pot raised on sticks. Soon the
crackling of a fire struck the scared ears
of Mr. Hare, while Mr. Tortoise ?s friends
sat around in a circle and discussed the
coming meal.
“I certainly do like rabbit.” said one.
“Do you think it as good as elephant
steak?” asked another.
“Oh, better—much better,” said a
third.
Here Mr. Hare, faint with fear and
heat, was just about to give up, when,
splash! and through a hole in the cover
of the pot came a nice dash of cold
water. Mr. Hare revived and looked
about cautiously. This program was
kept up for some hours, making poor
Mr. Hare very nervous, indeed, until at
294
THE CRISIS
last the patient cooks decided that their meal was ready; and indeed, the oil and
herbs were giving off a most tempting smell.
All the feasters washed their hands, laid out the dishes, and, seating
themselves in a circle, ran their tongues expectantly over their lips. The
pot was placed in the middle and the cover removed, when, presto! out
popped the very scared and bedraggled Mr. Hare and leaped into the jungle
like a flash leaving a thin trail of oil.
“Dear me!” said Mr. Tortoise, as Mr. Hare rushed gasping into the
house, “wherever have you been?”
“'Whew!” cried Mr. Hare, “but I surely had a narrow escape. I was
nearly murdered. I’ve been caught and cooked, and only by a miracle did
I escape,” and he began hastily licking his oily sides.
Mr. Tortoise with difficulty kept back his laughter and watched Mr. Hare
lick himself. Mr. Hare kept on licking and Mr. Tortoise crept nearer.
Mr. Hare took no notice and Mr. Tortoise perceived that bit by bit the
fright on Mr. Hare’s oily face was being replaced by the most emphatic
signs of pleasure as Mr. Hare continued to lick himself greedily. Mr. Tortoise
was interested, and stepping over quickly he began to lick the other side.
“My! how delicious,” he exclaimed in rapture, tasting the fine oil and
salt and the flavor of the herbs.
“Get away!” cried the greedy Mr. Hare. “You have not been in the
pot and boiled. Keep off!”
Mr. Tortoise, feeling that he had had a hand in that oil and salt, began
to get angry.
“Let me have your left shoulder to lick,” he demanded.
“I will not,” said Mr. Hare, who was now thoroughly enjoying himself.
Mr. Tortoise stormed out of the house in a great fury and almost ran
into the arms of his friends. They, too, were in a towering rage.
“What did you mean?” they cried. “Through your advice we’ve lost
our hare and all our beautiful oil and salt.”
“Dear me!” exclaimed Mr. Tortoise, losing in his indignation all thoughts
of friendship. “This is very, very sad. Now I will tell you what to do.
Arrange a dance and invite Mr. Hare. When he is dancing to your tom-toms
seize him and kill him.”
And this should have been the end of Mr. Hare.
But it wasn’t.
SOME BOOKS FOR BOYS AND GIRLS
By JESSIE FAUSET
kk^"MYILIZED man,” sang Mr. Owen
Meredith, “cannot live without
cooks.” That is open to argument. Cer-
tainly no one can dispute the statement that
“civilized man cannot live without books.”
For what should we do without intellectual
stimulus? And where does one get that
save in books? That is why we begin with
fairy tales. The Brothers Grimm, Ilans
Andersen, Arabian Nights—these are the
first aids to the intellect.
Even more important, they are first aids,
too, to the exercise of the imagination. Who
could read of Cinderella, of Jack, the Giant
Killer, of those high-sounding Eastern
names, Aladdin, Sitibad, Scheherazade with-
out being immediately translated to the
realm of make-believe?
Nothing is very strange to children be-
cause their experience is so slight; and yet
even their serenity must receive a slight
shock when Mother Goose presents the cow
jumping over the moon. That is a matter
requiring investigation. It would lie well
to learn more of this strange book. And
Lewis Carroll's Alice in Wonderland and
Through the Looking Glass are bound to
stimulate the most indifferent White Rabbits,
and laconic Humpty Dumpties are not to be
met with every day. What a blessing that
the man who knew the little girl who knew
them put his knowledge down in a hook!
Flow incomplete would life be without it!
Most any child is bound to like, too, Steven-
son’s Child's Garden of Verses and
Eugene Field's Nonsense B homes. The first
one attracts by its likeness to the facts of
life, the second because one is not sure
whether the statements made are true or not.
“The cow that’s speckled red and white I
296
THE CRISIS
love with all iny heart,” croons the country
child. Of course he does. Doesn’t he sec
her every day? And the little girl, looking
out on the drear city streets in the gray
mist of a November afternoon, suddenly
realizes that
11 The organ with the organ man
Is singing in the rain.”
On the other hand, why shouldn’t
‘ ‘ The owl and the pussycat go to sea
In a beautiful pea-green boat?”
Later on when the struggle with the queer
Latin and Greek names becomes less pro-
nounced Hawthorne’s Wonderbook and
the Tunylewood Tales, especially if the illus-
trations are Parrish’s, are much to be en-
joyed. And speaking of illustrations,
neither child nor grown-up should miss
Boutel de Manvel’s pictures in the child’s
story of Jean d’Arc.
Meanwhile the tendency to revel in the
fields of pure imagination grows less and
less. Life as it is actually lived makes its
appeal. Here come Margaret Sydney’s
“Pepper Books,” a charming array, and
Frances Hodgson Burnett’s “Secret Garden ”
a book with wonderful pictures. Then there
are V reden burg’s Dickens’ Children Stories
and Pendleton’s “Tim and Roy.” And
“Swiss Family Robinson”—which might so
easily have been real—and if only you and
I had belonged to the “Family!”
By now the girls are reading “Stories for
Girls.” Miss Alcott’s books—a series begin-
ning with “Little Women”—have no equal.
Boarding-school books charm. Ellen Doug-
las Deland presents the “Girls of Dudley
School,” Katharine Ellis has her “Wide-
awake Girls,” and Warde’s “Betty Wales”
stories seem very real indeed. And we
must not J'orget to mention Rosa Nonohette
Carey.
The boys are reading, too, but they are
shooting bears and stalking Indians with the
bold pioneer. Tomlinson’s “Flintlock and
Fife ” Drysdale’s “Brain and Brawn” Series,
Ellis’s Italian Series and a set ot* school
hooks by John Prescott Earle and Edward
Robin fulfil their idea of mental pabulum.
Suddenly just as childhood is turning the
corner comes the need for romance. Some
children—most of them—read prose, Charles
Major, Stanley Weyman, Anthony Hope;
SOME BOOKS FOR
oli. ihe charm of the “Prisoner of Zendu!'*
lhu a small proportion turns to verse.
Longfellow is frankly loved; there is a little
halt at the more translatable portions of
Hrointintf, and Keats and Shelley are more
«»r less appreciated in the exact proportion
in which one has appreciated one’s high-
school classics. Elizabeth Barrett Browning
is adored by girls. especially in “Aurora
Leigh." But most enchanting of all are the
Hubaimit for those lucky enough to find
Fitzgerald’s translation, and Tennyson.
Tennyson, dear master painter of chivalry
and goodness and purity and love! What a
BOYS AND GIRLS	297
world is shown in the “Idyls of the Kitty"
and the ‘'Princess.'’ “He cometh not.” says
“Marianna in the Moated Grange"—how the
refrain haunts one! The beautiful "Lady of
Shalott*9 fills her readers with that sadness
which is more delicious than joy. And
"Maud"—for the girls. Later on girls leant
that life is a little sad. that mere woman-
hood is not always appreciated; but in
“Maud”—
“Queen rose of the rosebud garden of girls**
sings Maud's lover. Even if one isn't a
queen rose, one may belong to the rosebud
garden by the mere virtue of being a girl.
And again—
298
THE
CRISIS
“She is coming, my own, my sweet;
My (lust would hear her and beat,
Had I lain for a century dead,
Would start and tremble under her feet,
And blossom in purple and red."
IIow tbe beautiful words thrill!
“Of making many books there is no end.”
Much remains to be said of the books which
the more mature boy and girl would enjoy.
Lack of space confines us to ten chosen at
random. Anne Douglass Sedgwick’s “Tante,”
Margaret Deland’s “Iron Woman ” Barrie’s
“Sentimental Tommy” any of Dickens’
Novels, King’s “Inner Shrine” Perceval
Gibbon’s “Flower o’ the Peach” Kenneth
Grahame’s “Olympians ” “Frau,” by John1
Ellis, and Alice Brown’s “Thyrza.”
The only fitting comment to make on
these books is to say that after one has read
them he will wish he had not—in order to
have the pleasure of reading them all over.
HISTORIC DAYS IN OCTOBER
1.	Convention of colored men at Raleigh,
X. C., 1860.
2.	Alexander T. Augusta, the first col-
ored man commissioned in the medical
department of the United States army, ap-
pointed surgeon of the Seventeenth Regi-
ment, United States Colored Volunteers,
1863.
6.	Slavery completely abolished in Cuba,
1886.
7.	William Still, Negro anti-slavery
worker and author, born, 1821.
8.	Many natives in South Africa enfran-
chised, 1887.
9.	Black soldiers from Hayti aided the
American troops in the attack on Savannah,
Ga., 1779.
10.	Robert Gould Shaw, colonel of the
Fifty-fourth Massachusetts Regiment, born,
1837.
12.	St. Thomas Church, Philadelphia,
first Episcopalian congregation consisting of
Negroes, organized, 1794.
13.	Free-school system inaugurated in
Georgia, 1870.
16.	John Brown attacked Harper’s
Ferry, 1859.
17.	Ogo and Chavannes, colored men of
Santo Domingo, demanded of the French
national convention political rights for their
people, 1790.
18.	Free colored people of Santo
Domingo petitioned the people of France
for equal rights, 1789.
19.	William W. Patton, former president
of Howard University, born, 1821.
21. William Lloyd Garrison mobbed in
Boston, 1835.
Vermont ratified the Fifteenth Amend-
ment, 1869.
24.	New York authorized the enlistment
of colored troops for service in the second
war with England, 1814.
25.	William Goodell, author of “The
American Slave Code,” born, 1792.
28. Levi Coffin, organizer of the “Under-
ground Railroad,” born, 1798.
L. M. Hershaw.
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE
BRANCHES.
HTML Indianapolis branch, with a member-
A ship of over fifty, has been admitted.
The president is Mrs. Mary E. Cable.
On July 18 Miss Ovington addressed the
Northeastern Federation of Women's Clubs,
convening at Jersey City, on the work of the
National Association.
BALTIMORE.
/^OUNSEL for the association reports
^ that the hearing on the Baltimore
segregation ordinance which was set for
August 20 lias been again postponed. The
new date set is September 14. Mr. Mar-
chant. the deputy State attorney, requested
this postponement, alleging as one of his
reasons his inability to argue so important a
matter without time for full preparation.
m
VIRGINIA CHRISTIAN.
rT"TllK board of directors desire to express
A their deep appreciation to the members
of the association for their gratifying re-
sponse to the circular letter requesting aid
in the Virginia Christian case. Letters and
contributions poured in from all parts of
the country. The balance on hand after
meeting the expenses of the case is $117.
This, with the consent of the donors, will
be applied to the legal redress fund and
kept for future emergencies of similar char-
acter. A circular letter of appreciation
giving a statement of the proposed disposi-
tion of the balance of the fund and accom-
panied by a sample copy of The Crisis,
which contains an account of the case, has
been sent to everyone contributing.
Mr. Thomas Ewing, Jr., of the well-known
legal firm of Ewing & Ewing, one of the
board of directors, at his own expense en-
gaged the services of Mr. Dodson, an attor-
ney of Norfolk, Va., in the case. Mr.
Dodson, after carefully reviewing the legal
history of the case and interviewing many
of the same people who had been seen al-
ready by the association’s representative,
came to the conclusion that the crime was
not premeditated. He spent over an hour
trying to persuade the governor to commute
the girl’s sentence.
§
THE BAR ASSOCIATION.
A S noted in another part of this issue the
American Bar Association has suc-
ceeded for the present in drawing the color
line. One of the three gentlemen under
discussion, Mr. William R. Morris of Minne-
apolis, resigned immediately upon learning
the action of the Bar Association. The work
of our organization in connection with this
matter has already been reviewed in previous
numbers of The Crisis. The board or direc-
tors feel that especial mention should be
made of the splendid campaign carried on
by the Boston branch. Under date of
August S a circular letter was sent to all
the Massachusetts members of the American
Bar Association, explaining the situation
and requesting their immediate reply to in-
quiries contained on an enclosed postcard.
Of the 420 cards sent out 224 were returned.
An analysis of the latter showed 220 of the
Massachusetts members who did not approve
of the attempt to exclude Mr. William H.
Lewis from membership, 2IS who did not
approve of the attempt to introduce race or
color as a qualification of membership, and
twelve who expected to attend the meeting at
Milwaukee. All but four were opposed to
drawing the race or color line and all but
six were opposed to the exclusion of colored
members. It was a great blow to the asso-
ciation that Mr. Moorfield Storey was too
ill to attend the meeting. Hon. Albert E.
Pillsbury and Judge Harvey H. Baker went
to Milwaukee expressly to fight the intro-
duction of the color line.
A PLEA FOR THE SURVIVAL OF THE PRO-
TECTORATES OF SOUTH AFRICA
By FRANCES HOGGAN, M. D.. of London, England
HE Protectorates of South
Africa are a substantial
monument to Great Bri-
tain’s civilizing power. No
doubt much still remains to
be done, and some things
had better have been left
undone. Early dealings with the Basuto, for
instance, as well as with other natives with
whom we had treaties, one cannot contem-
plate with equanimity, or always feel proud
of English diplomatic methods of dealing
with oversea dependencies. Still, taken in
the mass, English influence and government
have conduced greatly to the well being of
South African natives, and nowhere is this
more conclusively evident than in the Pro-
tectorates. One turns with genuine pleasure
from the Transvaal, Orange River Colony
and Rhodesia (white men’s country) to the
immense stretches of Bechuanaland and the
beautiful mountains and fertile valleys of
Basutoland, where one has the welcome feel-
ing that here at least the black man has a
home, and that the country, for all purposes
of living in and cultivating, belongs to him.
British rule extends over these two and the
Swaziland Protectorate. Government offi-
cials are very much to the fore in the
residency towns, the trying of all murder
cases and the more important civil cases
being in the hands of the English commis-
sioners, assistant commissioners and magis-
trates, having been relinquished by Khama
voluntarily, and by some of the other native
chiefs under pressure. Chiefs, however, still
retain a good deal of power, and all the
internal matters of the tribe are in their
hands to be administered according to tribal
custom and usage. The chief has govern-
ment pay like any other official when
employed to collect the hut tax; he is in
constant communication with the representa-
tives of the English government in the Pro-
tectorate, and receives from them much
useful help and counsel, and occasionally
something very like an order, but couched
in friendly and courteous terms. Where, as
is frequently the case, the administrator is
in close touch and sympathy with the chiefs,
the system works admirably, and it would be
difficult to devise a better mode of bringing
the advantages of Western civilization to the
natives of Africa. Paternal government is
tlie government best understood by natives,
and the sovereignty of a white paramount
chief is readily submitted to and loyally
accepted. The pathetic remonstrances con-
tained in the petitions addressed to the gov-
ernment by the native chiefs in both
Bechuanaland and Basutoland when South
African Union was under consideration,
their saddened references to their obedience
and loyalty to their white father, and desire
to continue under his rule, testify to their
disinclination for passing under any other
jurisdiction. The time must come, in the
natural order of events, when the Protec-
torates will be handed over to the control of
the “elder brother,” as the Union of South
Africa was designated in a public reply to
the petition of chiefs anxious to have the
existing Protectorate relations maintained.
The prospect presented to them tilled them
with dismay, and the Basuto are equally
averse to any new regime.
The distinction one is at once aware of in
the Protectorates is that the white man is
there for the benefit and protection of the
blacks, to promote their welfare, to stimulate
them to progress, and generally to further
their interests; whereas, outside the Protec-
torates, the feeling is at once forced on one
that the white man is the owner and master
of the country, and that the blacks are only
there on sufferance, to work for him, and
to build up the industries of the land
primarily for his advantage and interest.
In the great Bechuanaland Protectorate
tribal life is the rule and the power of the
chief is a very real thing. The chiefs are
commonly men of strong character, accus-
tomed to govern, and assisted by headmen of
recognized position in the tribe. These
headmen are sometimes, as when the chief is
young and the headman of mature age and
experience, of a high type of mind and wise,
in counsel, and the chief’s authority is always
exercised within certain well-known limits
and is not a pure despotism.
THE CUBAN REVOLUTION
301
KJiama, tlie grand old chief so well known
in connection with his opposition to the
liquor traffic, who has this year celebrated
in the presence of a representative of the
English government the jubilee of his bap-
tism, deferred on account of the death of
Edward VII., is a fine example of a strong,
'vise and humane native ruler. There are
many other chiefs, heathen, Christian or
wavering, who possess commanding qualities,
and enjoy the respect and affection of their
subjects and the consideration of white
officials.
The internal rule of these chiefs is effective
and only in well-prescribed circumstances are
they under the guidance and control of
English government officials, the more en-
lightened of whom are welcomed and con-
sulted by the chiefs as friends whose wisdom
and wider experience are highly appreciated.
To he present at some of these consultations
is a privilege but seldom enjoyed by
travelers. It gives an insight of great value
into the mental life and alibre of the Bantu,
and enables one in some degree to under-
stand their nature and the tribal outlook
on life, that of the communist as opposed
to that of the individualist.*
The tribal system is such a consistent
whole, and it has so molded the whole nature
of the Bantu; it is so much part and parcel
of their psychical life, that any rapid change
is to be deprecated even toward ethically
higher standards. In the transition period
the older sanctions of life and conduct fall
to the ground, leaving a moral blank. It is
those natives who are in the chaotic whirl
of change from the old to the new who
constitute the dangerous class of whom so
much of late years has been heard. In the
Protectorates this class is not a large one
and is easily controlled. Where it tends to
become a grave peril to the community is
especially in the Transvaal and Rhodesia, in
the neighborhood of the mines, and where
natives are exasperated by galling restric-
tions and disabilities.
As is always the case, it is the verge of
civilization, where contact with whites or'
low morality debases the natives that the
most unsatisfactory race relations are found.
In all parts of South Africa where the
underlying idea of the governing classes is
the good of white men and only incidentally,
as a necessary asset of the country and its de-
velopment, the good of the natives, friction
of an acute kind must occur. Where, on the
other hand, the white ruler aims at develop-
ment, and the conditions of a happy,
prosperous and progressively civilized life
for the natives are realized, good feeling
prevails, and the advantages of white
supremacy are not disputed. So satisfactory
are the general relations between governing
and governed in the Protectorates that it
would be a disaster for them to be incor-
porated with South Africa before time has
been allowed for the growth of a more
liberal policy toward natives generally, and
until guarantees can be devised for the
special recognition of the existing rights and
privileges of th£ Protectorate natives. Their
faith in their white “Father’ and his ad-
ministrators is so touching and complete
that we are bound by all motives of loyalty
to duty and good faith toward the dependent
tribes not to betray their trust.
A Japanese gentleman I once met told me
that the English resembled the Japanese in
their possession of the quality of faithful-
ness. Japanese devotion to duty has been
splendidly proved on the field of battle.
May ours be equally well proved ou the
battlefield of race (a far more difficult field
in which to gain laurels) in South Africa, to
our lastiug glory and the well being of all
the Protectorates under our fostering care!
•See Dudley Kidd’s “Kaffir Socialism.”
THE CUBAN REVOLUTION
ITH the colored population
of the Province of Oriente
reduced by 3,000, including
the leaders Estenoz and
Ivonnet, the prisons of
Santiago filled to their
capacity, and* the names of
conspirators stricken from the roll of the
Veterans of Cuban Independence, the ill-
advised uprising of the Independent Colored
Party has been completely crushed by the
Cuban government and the net result of the
movement has been to broaden the attenu-
ated line between the races.
The object of the revolutionists was to
intimidate the government into repealing the
302
THE CRISIS
Morua law against the formation of political
parties on racial, lines. This law. which
owes its name to the late Morua Delgado,
Secretary of War and President of the
Senate, was in reality designed to protect
the interests of his people. The Negro popu-
lation, which now numbers little more than
one-fourth the total population of Cuba, is
constantly decreasing proportionately with
the increase of European immigration. Ob-
viously a political party always in the
minority could never hope to exercise great
influence upon the government, and the exist-
ence of a separate colored party would only
tend to the formation of exclusively white
parties which would deprive the Negroes of
all the privileges which they now enjoy.
Of the eighty members of the Cuban
House of Representatives, some twelve are
professedly of Negro blood, and the senate
now includes one colored member. These men
have been elected purely on their own merits
by mixed constituencies. To them and to
other men of color are open any offices to
which their ability and their influence entitle
them. No member of the House of Represen-
tatives is more highly regarded by his col-
leagues than is Campos Mafquetti or Juan
Gualberto Gomez, now the Liberal candidate
for the presidency of the assembly of
Havana Province. In Cuba, as perhaps in
no other country, the Emancipation Procla-
mation has brought real freedom and oppor-
tunity to the erstwhile slave.
If Estenoz had any motive other than that
of personal discontent and unsatisfied ambi-
tion, it wits the supposition that the repeal
of the Morua law, by American intervention,
if necessary, would advance the status of the
Negro more rapidly than he has progressed
in the thirty years of complete emancipation.
Estenoz could not have familiarized himself
with the condition of the Negro in the South
when he visited the United States. If he
were now living he would not only be dis-
illusioned by the action of the Progressive
party, but he would have the additional as-
surance of Mr. Roosevelt in a recent speech
on “The March of Our Flag,” that “if we
were in control in Cuba the Negroes would
be kept within bounds, socially and politic-
ally”—to which a writer in Pearson’s Maga-
zine adds: “On intervening again we must
remain there (in Cuba) until we have ac-
complished a task as thorough as that of
England in Egypt.”
Fortunately for Cuba, the majority of the
colored people, and a large number, even of
the Independents, were entirely opposed to
the extreme action of Estenoz. In suppress-
ing the rebellion the Liberal government had
the warm support of their Conservative op-
ponents and of the representative colored
men. The speedy and severe campaign has
brought untold suffering upon the people of
Oriente, but it is to be hoped that the pas-
sage of a general pardon act will restore
to the families that have not been bereft of
their breadwinners the hundreds of prisoners
who became the victims of a misguided
reformer.	James B. Clarke.
THE BURDEN
“DID YOU SEND MY LETTER OPEN?”
UR readers will remember the horrible
lynching picture published in our
January, 1912, number. We tried to get
details of this affair, but the utmost we have
been able to extract is the following letter
from a colored minister:
“Andalusia, Ala.
“Dear Sir
yours Received you ask me Of the Man that
was lynch yas Pettegru A negro was lench
without Being loud 5 minits to tell the or to
Prov him sealf enisen or Not With about
67 white men Well Arm He was shot to Deth
the last Words I Hrd him said god nose I
did not Do it sense then 2 White men was
charge with Being Concerning in it after
killing him he was Drug On the ground with
his Feets tide to the Hine Buggie Axel and
Boddy Draging the ground. He was carried
near one Mile Round the town he was a
man near 26 yeas old. He Did Not fear a
man for His color Dont care what nomber
of lettrs you get this is the Feoligy (?)
truth. Did you cent My letter open Enney
Perticklers cend Redes (registered) lettr.
“We cant tell what we Wantr tell in this
town”	(No signature.)
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
303
T1	T1 D 1	i * l
	sis -Hub	lisr
ers
Page

Prizes
We publish this month pictures of 115 children and we leave lying on our
desk over a hundred others which we would like to publish but space fails
this time; besides many came too late. Some of the left-overs are so interesting
that we may publish them later.
THE FIRST PRIZE in our contest. THE CRISIS cup. goes to the babies
on the cover, who live in California.
THE SECOND PRIZE, two years’ subscription, goes to the baby on
page 267, who lives in Washington, D. C.
THE THIRD PRIZE, one year's subscription, goes to the baby at the
top of page 295. who also lives in Washington, D. C.
Our Second Birth Month
November will bring the Second Anniversary Number of THE CRISIS,
marking the end of the second year of its existence and the beginning of the
third year. The feature of this number will be a review of the history of
colored magazines in the United States. Mr. Charles Edward Stowe will
contribute an article on the religion of slavery.
Christmas
Richard Brown is at work on our Christmas cover. Our circulation man
says 25,000 copies for Christmas, but we can hardly believe him. There will be a
Christmas card, of course.
Power in Advertising
Newspaper and magazine advertising is as much a source of convenience
to the reader as a benefit to the advertiser. No advertised article is salable
unless it either saves time and labor or affords comfort and pleasure.
Our Advertising Department selects and solicits our advertisements with
extreme care, looking always to the trustworthiness of the proposition and its
possible adaptability to the needs and requirements of our readers.
By keeping our advertising pages up to their present high standard, we will
in the near future make them a convenient department store for fireside
shopping.
We can only judge your appreciation of our efforts to give you clean
advertising by the number of replies received by the advertisers. Look over
the half-a-hundred advertisements in this issue and see if there is not one
which offers something of interest to you.
Business Matters
ADVERTISING—Address all inquiries to Albon L. Holsey, Advertising Manager.
CIRCULATION—The present circulation of THE CRISIS is 22,000 copies per month, in
every State in the Union and in 26 foreign lands. Our circulation books are open to interested
parties.
AGENTS—THE CRISIS has at present a staff of 469 agents. Only agents who can furnish
urst-class references are desired.
... LETTERS—Address business letters to W. E. B. Du Bois, Manager. Draw all checks to
THE CRISIS, 26 Vesey Street, New York City.
304
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
Suffrage Conditions in Democratic and Republican
States Compared	By Joseph c. manning of Alabama
It is in justice to themselves that the American people, during the present
demagogic agitation, when so much is being said about the rule of the people, should
enter into a calm and dispassionate consideration of certain suffrage conditions in
this country that really should appeal to the thoughtfulness and to the sense of
fairness of all the voters of the United States for righteous adjustment.
Let those of the American people who may have been led into thinking that
the Republican party is not the party of the people, is without popular support,
and who have been taught that the Democratic party is the party of the people,
having the support of the masses of the people, let these misinformed American
voters go into the consideration of facts that are incontrovertible and then determine
for themselves whether the Democratic party or the Republican party is the party having
the support of the masses of the people.
The so-called rock-ribbed Democratic States of the South are the mainstay and
stronghold of the national Democratic party. What of the voting strength backing
up the democracy in the dozen Southern States which gave their electoral votes to
the Democratic presidential ticket in 1908? The combined vote of Alabama, Arkansas,
Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina.
Tennessee, Texas and Virginia for the Democratic electoral tickets in 1908 was
1,146,263. There are 5,953,621 males of voting age in these dozen States, and of
this number 4,066,067 are white and 1,887,554 are colored. It will be seen that
2,919,804 white males of voting age did not vote the Democratic ticket in support
of this Southern democracy, and that the 1,877,554 colored male citizenship of voting
age is even a greater number than the Democratic vote of 1,146,263. The combined
vote polled by the Democratic delegations in Congress from these States, in 1910, was
but 879,676. Having a male citizenship in these dozen States numbering 5,953,623
persons of voting age, while only 1,146,263 ballots dominate in a presidential contest
and but 879,676 dominate in congressional elections, these figures, of themselves, are
severe enough arraignment of the political party under which such an intolerable
condition has become possible. These bald facts refute, lay bare, any pretense or
pretext that the Democratic party is a party of the masses of the people.
In the national election in 1908 the State of Alabama had eleven votes in the
electoral college. The vote polled for the Bryan electors was 74,374. Minnesota, a
Republican State, in 1908, had eleven electoral votes. The vote for Taft in this
State was 195,843. The Alabama delegation in Congress was elected in 1910 on
81,400 ballots, while the vote cast for the delegation in Congress from Minnesota, in
1910, was 183,373. The whole vote cast for all candidates for Congress in Alabama,
in 1910, was 96,313, while the whole vote cast for all candidates for Congress in
Minnesota, in 1910, was 266,145.
Mississippi had ten electoral votes in 1908. The vote for the Bryan electors
was 60,287. Kansas had ten electors in 1908, and 197,216 votes were polled in that
State for the Taft electors. The delegation in Congress from Mississippi had a
combined vote in 1910 of 23,865, while the Kansas delegation in Congress had a
combined vote of 161,880. The whole vote for all Congress candidates in Mississippi
was 23,865, while the whole vote for all Congress candidates in Kansas was 293,234.
South Carolina had nine electoral votes in 1908 and polled a vote of 62,288 for
Bryan. The State of Washington had five electoral votes and polled 106,062 ballots
for Taft. Vermont^had four electoral votes and polled 39,552 ballots for Taft.
Washington and Vermont, both Republican States in 1908, gave Taft a combined
vote of 145,614. South Carolina elected the entire Congress delegation on 30,005
ballots in 1910, while the combined vote of Washington and Vermont for the
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
305
Congress delegations from these Stales was 115,427. These two States polled
180,286 votes for all Congress candidates and South Carolina polled 30,005 votes
for all Congress candidates.
The first Arkansas congressional district elected R. B. Mason, a Democrat, to
Congress in 1010 on a total vote of 2,803.	The first Iowa district sent.	C. A. Kennedy,
a Republican, to Congress on	a vote of	15,602.	The	first	Georgia	district elected
C.	O. Edwards, a Democrat,	on 2,019	ballots.	The	first	Kansas	district elected
D.	R. Anthony, a Republican,	on 21,852	ballots.	The	third	Louisiana district gave
R.	F. Broussard, Democrat, 4,011 votes. The third Pennsylvania district elected
J. H. Moore on 23,726 ballots. The eighth Mississippi district elected J. W. Collier,
Democrat, on 1,739 votes. The eighth Ohio Congressional district elected F. B.
Willis. Republican, on 21,030 votes.
The vote polled tor B. L. French, representative in Congress from Idaho, was
46,401. The eleven members of the Georgia delegation in Congress polled a combined
vote in 1910 of 45,867. The whole vote cast for all the members of Congress from
Louisiana in 1910 was 45,183.
Congressman Stephens of the seventh California district was elected to Congress
in 1910 on a total of 36,4:15 ballots. At the same time there were seven Democratic
Congressmen from Arkansas elected on a combined vote of 31,828. The Democratic
delegation from Florida had a combined vote of 30,995. In the nineteenth Illinois
district Congressman McKinley received 23,107 votes, while eight members of
Congress came up from the Democratic State of Mississippi on a combined vote
aggregating but 23,S65. When a district in New York State was electing Congress-
man Payne on 21,121 ballots there were six congressional districts in the Southern
States that polled a combined vote of 13,764 for the six successful Congress candi-
dates. Ten members of Congress from the South have a combined vote of
26,826 ballots.
It is absurd for Southern Democrats, or for the national Democratic party, of
which the Southern democracy is a part of the machine, to make any acclaim for
popular government in the face of these twelve Democratic States in the South with
5,953,621 male citizens of voting age being dominated by a Democratic vote aggregat-
ing only 1,146,263. It is ridiculous for the democracy to talk about the rule of the
people, whereas 4,066.067 whites and 1,S87,544 blacks of voting age in these so-called
rock-ribbed Democratic States are being governed by a minority party that has
reduced the electorate to but 1,146,263 Democratic voters, while the whole vote polled
for all electoral candidates in these States in 1908 aggregated only 1,802,510.
Pity those who would exchange the suffrage conditions in those States of the
North, where the Republican party has been the dominant party, for the conditions
in the States of the South where the Democratic party has maintained its power
through fixing the hold of a Bourbon political despotism upon the masses of the people.
The attitude of the Democratic party as to voting rights is shown by the
conditions in those States of the South constituting the backbone of the national
Democratic party, while in no Republican State has there been instituted intrigue and
subterfuge in the forms of law to thwart the rule of the people or to eliminate from
the suffrage any class because of color, as is the case in the States of the South.
When the disfranchisement of colored voters was undertaken in Maryland by
certain amendments to the constitution of the State, President Taft wrote in a
letter to a leading Republican of Maryland as follows: “The whole law ought to
be condemned. It is not drawn in the spirit of justice and equality, having regard
for the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments, and I sincerely hope that no Republican
who desires equality of treatment to the black and white races will vote for it.’
Colonel Roosevelt, the third-term candidate for President, announced his
acquiescence in the suffrage conditions in the South and in a letter to the president
of the Virginia Bar Association, which letter was made public following the presi-
dential election in 1908, made it quite clear that he did not favor any interference
with those laws in the South designed to eliminate colored voters. In the article
(Continued on page 30$)
306
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
Subject: Make Friends of Thine Enemies
The greatest boon which civilization has conferred upon
free men is the privilege to have a voice in the government and
conduct of their own affairs. The symbol of that privilege is the
ballot. The legislatures of the several States determine the
methods of acquiring, holding, selling and taxation of property,
both real and personal. These legislatures are elected by the
people who possess the right to cast a ballot. The legislatures
of the several States define and prescribe the civil rights of the
people within their jurisdiction. Chief among these rights is the
right to obtain an education; the right of the people to be
secure in their persons, houses, papers and effects, against unrea-
sonable searches and seizures; the right, when accused of crime,
to have a speedy and public trial by an impartial jury; the right
to freedom of speech and the free and unabridged expression
and practice of their religious beliefs are guaranteed by the
Constitution of the United States, which is the supreme law of
the land. And if Mr. Roosevelt’s policies triumph the Constitu-
tion of the United States will be subject to amendment and
repeal by any temporary majority of the people enjoying the
right to cast a ballot. The ballot then is the bulwark of our
property, our liberties and our lives.
The bulk of the Negroes in the United States reside in the
States of the South. Here they are practically disfranchised and
have no voice whatever in the shaping of laws which affect
their most vital interests. What, then, is the crying need of the
Negro to-day? The right to cast a vote for the protection of his
property and life and the welfare of his posterity.
How Can He Obtain That Right?
For forty-two years the Negro has supported the Republican
party in the hope that the party which stood sponsor for his
freedom would stand as the guardian of his constitutional rights.
With the exception of eight years that party has been, for the
greater part of the time, in nearly absolute control of all depart-
ments of the government. Instead of gaining in the momentous
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
307
stmgglc which he is making for his rights, the Negro has steadily
lost ground from year to year. To-day the Republican party,
after a fair trial, stands before the world, confessedly unable to
secure for the black man the enforcement of the laws which the
founders made nearly a half century ago. It is clear then that
the Democratic party, which dominates the Southern States, is
the one party which has the power to restore to the Negro the
right of suffrage.
Since the great majority of educated Negroes are satisfied
that the race has paid off in full and with compound interest
whatever debt of gratitude it owed the Republican party, their
chief concern is the fear that should the Democrats come into
power some greater misfortune will befall them. The decisive
argument against this fear can be found in the record of the
Democratic Congress which adjourned last August. Here was
a Congress overwhelmingly Democratic, the first of its kind since
1894. In all its lengthy session but two speeches were made
containing a trace of Negro hatred and not a single bill against
Negroes was reported from any committee. On the contrary, this
Congress passed the greatest of all pension bills, which included,
among its beneficiaries, thousands of old Negro soldiers. But the
act for which this Congress will be forever remembered is the
formation by its Congressional Campaign Committee of the
National Colored Democratic League, the first bona fide national
political organization of colored men ever formed in this country.
This fact sets' at rest for all time the argument that the Demo-
cratic party does not want the Negro. It has met us half way.
Having lost nearly everything, we have but little to lose, but
much to gain. The invitation is offered. Reason and intelligence
command us to lay aside our prejudices and fears and reach out
for the friendship and support of the people who are to-day
oppressing us because of our political hostility toward them.
Alexander Walters, President.
Bishop A. M. E. Zion Church. ROBERT N. WOOD,
Chairman Executive Committee.
NATIONAL COLORED DEMOCRATIC LEAGUE
“There never was a gentleman born in Virginia who
was an enemy of the Negro.”—JOHN B. SYPHAX.
(Adr.)
308
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
Suffrage Conditions in Democratic and Republican States Compared
(Continued from page 305)
embracing the letter of Colonel Roosevelt, written October 27, 1908, but not given
out for publication until after the November election following, the Washington Post
said, by way of introduction, that “President Roosevelt is satisfied with the balloting
privileges accorded the Negro by the laws of the Southern States.” This view will
hardly please colored citizens in this country when they know that scarcely more than
3,000	colored citizens are permitted to register for voting in a State like Alabama,
for example, whereas there are 213,923 colored male citizens of voting age in this State.
(Adv.)
The Meeting Place of Business and Proficiency
A large corporation advertised in The Crisis for a general manager with
capital. The wording of their advertisement eliminated all inquirers save those
with capital and experience. They write:
“We believe that one of the parties is really interested in
our proposition and will close with him in a few days.91
They “closed’’ with him and have since advertised for other high-grade help.
HELP WANTED
9!W AGENTS
Become partners in our business
through our profit-sharing plan.
Sell “BRANDT’S AUTOMATIC
STROPPER.’’ It hones and
sharpens your razor better than
an expert barber. Works auto-
matically for old-style razors and
safety blades. Anyone can use it.
Guaranteed for life. Our profit-
sharing plan and our premiums make this the greatest
agency proposition. Write quick for prices and territory.
R. V. BRANDT MFG. CO., 42 Hudson St., New York
We Will Starfl You In a
Paying Business fior $10.00
We are importers and manufacturers of
natural human hair and all kinds of human
hair goods.
On an investment of $10.00 we will ship
you enough goods to clear from $20.00
to $30.00, and show you how to conduct
a profitable business.
Hairdressing taught by capable instruc-
tors. Terms from $5.00 to $50.00. Posi-
tions guaranteed our graduates. Address
C.	S. STARK, Manufacturer
54 Oakwood Avenue	Orange, N. J.
Don’t Slave for Wages
Be your own boss. We show you how.
Particulars free.
JACKSON SPECIALTY CO.
Box 22A	East Lynn, Mass.
AGENTS—Represent reliable house, 400 per
cent, profit. Selling GORDON’S Photo Pillow
Tops. High grade work. Easy sales. Big money.
Samples and catalogue free.
Duther Gordon Co. 200 N. Fifth Ave., Chicago, 111.
WINNER POLISH
THE CHAMPION
WINDOW CLEANER
Also unexcelled for cleaning Gold and Silver
Plated Ware, German Silver, Brass, Copper, Tin,
Steel, or any material where a brilliant lustre is
requirod.
By Mall, 10c. postpaid. AGENTS WANTED
H. E. CLARK
309 East 119th Street, New York City
RELIABLE, LIVE,
RESPONSIBLE MEN
who can sell real estate can MAKE MORE
than $200 PER MONTH acting as
AGENTS for the sale of our properties in
MUSKOGEE and TAFT, OKLAHOMA.
The real coming country where there are
opportunities and openings for all. Write
us to-day, giving your age and experience,
and we will offer you a FINE PROPOSI-
TION WHICH WILL MAKE YOU
MONEY. Address
REEVES REALTY CO.
Department C
217 Flynn-Ames Bldg. Muskogee, Okla.
AGENTS—Big money. Johnson-Flynn
fight and other copyrighted Negro pic-
tures. Portraits. Pillow Tops. Catalog
FREE. 30 days’ credit.
PEOPLES PORTRAIT CO.
Station U, Chicago, 111.
WANTED—Reliable men with references
to handle the best Stock Investment on
the market. Any good solicitor can earn
from $50 to $100 per month.
Our reference: The Bank of Mound
Bayou.
THE S. I. & E. CORPORATION
Mound Bayou, Miss.
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
309
SECOND-HAND TYPEWRITERS
Remingtons, Densmores,
Jewetts, $11.50 each;
Franklins, Postals, Ham-
monds, 89 each. Bargains in
Underwoods, Smiths and all
others. All guaranteed.
Supplies.
Standard Typewriter
Exchange
23B Park Row, New York
REGALIA
A RACE ENTERPRISE
Manufacturing Badges, Banners and Sup-
plies for all Fraternal and Church Societies.
Catalogue upon request.
CENTRAL REGALIA CO.
Jos. L. Jones, Pres.
N. E. Cor. 8th and Plum Streets
Cincinnati. Ohio
PATENTS
L. H. LATIMER
MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEER
and
SOLICITOR OF PATENTS
56 John Street	New York
Inventions Perfected, Models and Experi-
mental Machines Designed and Constructed.
Technical Translations.
Telephone 343 John	Room 604
MUTUAL TEACHERS’
AGENCY
Recommends teachers for schools; secures
employment for teachers. Blanks and
information furnished free on application.
1335 T Street, N. W. Washington, D. C.
ARCHITECTS
WIGINGTON & BELL
Architects
Karbach Block	Omaha, Neb.
A PLACE TO STOP
The CENTREVILLE
Neatly Furnished Rooms
Hot and Cold Baths
322-324 West 52d Street, New York
Mrs. Hercules Young
SITUATIONS WANTED
Young Lady, just completed three
years’ commercial course, desires position
as stenographer. Address 42 Cheever
Street, Hamilton, Ontario.
UNDERTAKERS
Telephone Columbus 3935	Open All Night
RODNEY DADE & BROS.
Undertakers and Emb&lmers
Notary Public
Funeral Parlor and Chapel Free.
Licensed Lady Embalmer	Prompt Service
266 West 53d Street	New York, N. Y.
Between Broadway and 8th Avenue
P. and A. Phone, 4771 F.
JOHN B. DAVIS
JFunrral SirFrtur
Shipping to All Parts a Specialty
Carriages for Receptions
Funeral Parlor and Chapel Free
2154 Wylie Avenue	Pittsburgh, Pa.
INVESTMENTS
Invest Your Money
in M^ound Bayou
We are promoting and financing The
People’s Brick Company, one of the
most-needed and best-paying enter-
prises in the town.
OUR REFERENCE: THE
BANK OF MOUND BAYOU,
OR ANY CITIZEN.
YOUR MONEY will earn 7 per
cent, from the time it is invested, and
much more in the very near future.
For complete information address
The S. I. E. Corporation
MOUND BAYOU, MISS.
Mention The Crisis.
310
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
PERSONAL CARDS
Telephone 5277 Morningsido
DR. GERTRUDE E. CURTIS
Surgeon Dentist
188 West 135th Street, New York City
Telephone 4885 Morningsido
DR. D. W. ONLEY
Surgeon Dentist
S. W. Cor. 133d St. and Lenox Ave., New York
Office Hours: 9 to 12 a. in., 1 to 9 p. m.
Sundays by Appointment
J. DOUGLAS WETMORE
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
5 Beekman Street (Temple Court)
New York City
Tel. 6222 Oortlandt	Cable Address, Judowet
FREDERICK L. McGHEE
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Union Block, Fourth and Cedar Streets
St. Paul, Minn.
General Practice	Notary Public
WILLIAM R. MORRIS
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
1020 Metropolitan Life Building
Minneapolis, Minn.
Real Estate and Probate Matters a Specialty
ROBERT B. BARCUS
Attornoy and Counselor-at-Law
Notary Public
Office: Room 502, Eberly Block,	Columbus, O.
B. S. SMITH
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Offices: Suite 610, Sykes Block.
Minneapolis, Minn.
GEORGE W. MITCHELL
Attomey-at-Law
908 Walnut Street
Philadelphia, Pa.
Tel. 2026 Fort Hill	Cable Address, Epben
EDGAR P. BENJAMIN
Attorney and Counsellor-at-Law
34 SCHOOL STREET	Boston, Mass.
Telephone Connection
W. Ashbie HawkinB	George W. F. McMechen
HAWKINS & McMEOHEN
Attomeys-at-Law
21 East Saratoga Street	Baltimore, Md.
PAMPHLETS
Published and sold by
The National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People
1.	African Civilization: By M. D. Mac-
lean. Price 2 cents.
2.	The Brain of the American Negro:
By Burt G. Wilder. Price 20 cents.
3.	Social Control: By Jane Addams, of
Hull House. Price 1 cent.
4.	The Negro as a Soldier: By Briga-
dier-General Burt, U. S. A. Price 5 cents.
5.	Leaving It to the South: An experi-
ence and some conclusions by Charles
Edward Russell. Price 5 cents.
6.	Views of a Southern Woman:	By
Adelene Moffat. Price 2 cents.
7.	Disfranchisement: By John Haynes
Holmes. Price 5 cents.
8.	Contribution of the Negro to Human
Civilization: By Dr. A. F. Chamberlain.
Price 15 cents.
9.	Disfranchisement: By W. E. B.
Du Bois. Price 10 cents.
Address
The Crisis Book Department
26 VESEY STREET	NEW YORK
$65.00
A value unequaled. Sold o»
Si.00	Profit Margin. Write
for prices and other styles.
Send for catalog.
Co R. Patterson & Sons
GREENFIELD, OHIO
JLargejt Negro carriage concern in the Unitact States
Mention The Crisis.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE
ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE
OFFICES: 26 Vesey Street, New York.	Incorporated May 25, 1911
OFFICERS
National President—Mr. Moorfleld. Storey, Boston,
Mass.
Vice-Presidents—
Rev. John Haynes Holmes, New York.
Mr. John E. Milholland, New York.
Bishop Alexander Walters, New York.
Rev. Garnet R. Waller, Baltimore. Md.
Miss Mary White Ovington, Brooklyn, N. Y.
Chairman of the Board of Directors—
Mr. Oswald Garrison Villard, New York.
Treasurer—Mr. Walter E. Sachs, New York.
Director of Publicity and Research—
Dr. W. E. B. Du Bois, New York.
Secretary—Miss May Childs Nerney, Brooklyn, N. Y.
Assistant Secretary—Miss Martha Grucnlng, New
York.
This year we shall attack segregation laws, investigate lynching,
defend the Negro in his civil rights, protest unceasingly against
race discrimination.
We want 2,000 members January 1, 1913. Watch the clock!
MEMBERSHIP BLANK
I hereby accept membership in the NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE
ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE.
Please find enclosed.__dollars and enter my name as a member in Class
......paying $______ a year, and send me THE CRISIS.
Address.
Contributing Members, paying $10,
$5 or $2 per year.
Associate Members, paying $1 per
year.
Class 1. Life Members, paying $500.	Class 4.
Class 2. Donors, paying $100 per year.
Class 3. Sustaining Members, paying $25 Class 5.
per year.
The subscription to THE CRISIS is $1 extra, except to members paying $5 or more, who
signify their wish that $1 of their dues be considered a CRISIS subscription.
All members in good standing have the privilege of attending and voting at the Annual
Conference of the Association.
PLEASE MAKE CHECKS PAYABLE TO NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT
OF COLORED PEOPLE, 26 VESEY STREET, NEW YORK CITY.
Mention Thk Cxisis.
HALF A MAN
The Status of the Negro in New York
By
MARY WHITE OVINGTON
With a foreword by Dr. Franz Boas of Columbia University
Chapter 1. How the colored people won their civil and political rights.
Chapters II. and III. The Negro tenement and the life of the poor.
Chapters IV. and V. How the colored man earns his living, with a full descrip-
tion of the professions; the ministry, the stage.
Chapter VI. The colored woman, her discouragements and successes.
Chapter VII. A vivid description of the life of the well-to-do Negroes.
Chapter VIII. The Negro in politics in New York.
Chapter IX. The author's personal views on the race question.
Price $1.00; by mail, $1.12.
LONGMANS, GREEN & CO., Publishers, NEW YORK
This book is for sale in the Book Department of The Crisis, 26 Vesey St., N. Y.
It is not expensive machinery and high-grade paper stock alone,
is those things plus correct type formations and artistic blending
co ois v\ith textures combined with superior workmanship.
g ive business men appreciate the business-building qualities
S,‘ll0nery' “,al°8ues a»d printed things produced in our shop.
CRISIf' j°d4 ,NaS'' °' K”S"e' Dr- W- E- B. Du Bois. of The
CRISIS, and Prof. T F
Pingarn are among our satisfied patrons.
Wnie for samPks end quotations.
^°rB™T N- WOOD, Printing and Engraving
202 EAST 99th STREET	NEW YORK
Phone 6667 Lenox
Mention The Crisis.