The Black Experience in America
Negro Periodicals in the United States, 1840-1960
The Black Experience in America
Negro Periodicals in the United States, 1840-1960
Alexander’s Magazine
Volumes 1-7(1905-1909)
Colored American Magazine
Volumes 1-17/05 (1900-1909)
Competitor
Volumes 1-3/04 (1920-1921)
Crisis; A Record of the Darker Races
Volumes 1-47 (1910-1940)
Douglass’ Monthly
Volumes 1-5 (1858-1863)
Half-Century Magazine
Volumes 1-18/01 (1916-1925)
Messenger; World’s Greatest Negro Monthly
Volumes 1-10/05 (1917-1928)
National Anti-Slavery Standard
Volumes 1-30(1840-1870)
National Era
Volumes 1-14 (1847-1860)
National Principia
Volumes 1-15/027 (1858-1866)
Negro Quarterly, A Review of Negro Life and Culture
Numbers 1-4 (1942-1943)
Opportunity; A Journal of Negro Life
Volumes 1-17 (1923-1939)
Quarterly Review of Higher Education Among Negroes
Volumes 1-28(1933-1960)
Race Relations; A Monthly Summary of Events and Trends
Volumes 1-5 (1943-1948)
Radical Abolitionist
Volumes 1-4/05 (1855-1858)
Southern Frontier
Volumes 1-6(1940-1945)
Voice of the Negro
Volumes 1-4(1904-1907)
Crisis
/1
A Record of the Darker Races
Volumes 7-8
19131914
NEGRO UNIVERSITIES PRESS
NEW YORK-1969
p
This reprint edition reproduces, in an unaltered
form, the entire contents of the original publication,
as far as it has been possible to determine.
This work has been printed on long-life paper
and conforms to the standards developed
under the sponsorship of the
Council on Library Resources.
Printed in the United States of America
SBN 8371-1189-7
EXPOSITION	NUMBER
THC CRISIS
NOVEMBER	Ten-(ents
"19 13*	A-COPY
PROGRAM OF THE
■National tEnianripattnn Exposition
OCTOBER 22 to 31,	1913
12th Regiment Armory	New York City
	|	Special Days	1 Afternoons 1 i '	i	Evenings
I Oct. 22	Wednesday	1 Albany Saratoga Troy	Fraternal Orders	Opening Exercises
Oct. 23 1 1	Thursday	New Rochelle 1	Masons and Odd Fellows	Pageant
Oct. 24	Friday	Governor’s Day Syracuse	Stenographers and Artisans	Music School Settlement Concert
Oct. 25	Saturday	Mount Vernon White Plains	All Southern Day Pageant	Athletic Meet
Oct. 26	Sunday	Douglass Day Rochester	Inter-church Chorus RELIGIOUS	Will Marion Cook and Double Quartette CONGRESS
Oct. 27	Monday	Lincoln, 111., Day, Yonkers	Professional Men	Banquet
		SOCIOLOGICAL CONGRESS		
Oct. 28	Tuesday	Baltimore Buffalo	Children’s Day	Pageant
		WOMAN’S		DAY
Oct. 29	Wednesday	Boston, Bing- hamton, Elmira, Ithaca, Auburn	Business Men	Clef Club Concert
Oct. 30	Thursday	Washington, D. C., Kings- ton, Newburgh, Ossining, Poughkeepsie	West Indians	Pageant 1
Oct. 31	1 1 Friday i	Greater New j York	Native New Yorkers	Exposition Band Concert and Costume Ball
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS
A RECORD OF THE DARKER RACES
PUBLISHED BY THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE, AT 26 VESEY STREET, NEW YORK CITY
Conducted by
W. E. BURGHARDT DU BOIS
AUGUSTUS GRANVILLE DILL, Business Manager
Contents for November, 1913
COVER PICTURE: An Octoroon. (Photographed from life.)
ARTICLES
Page
OFFICERS OF THE LAW .................................. 327
THE NATIONAL EMANCIPATION EXPOSITION.................. 339
THE MUSLIN PRIEST AND THE HEATHEN.
Adapted by A. O. Stafford.......................... 345
THE FREEDOM OF THE FREE. A Poem.
By Benjamin Griffith Brawley....................... 347
DEPARTMENTS
ALONG THE COLOR LINE............................ 319
MEN OF THE MONTH................................ 325
OPINION ........................................ 328
EDITORIAL ...................................... 337
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE ............................. 342
LETTER BOX ..................................... 348
TEN CENTS A COPY; ONE DOLLAR A YEAR
FOREIGN SUBSCRIPTIONS TWENTY-FIVE^ CENTS EXTRA
RENEWALS:	When a subscription blank is attached to this page a renewal of your
subscription is desired. The date pf the expiration of your subscription will be found on the
wrapper.
CHANGE OF ADDRESS: The address of a subscriber can be changed as often as desired.
In ordering a change of address, both the old and the new address must be given. Two weeks’
notice is required.
MANUSCRIPTS and drawings relating to colored people are desired. They must be accom-
panied by return postage. If found unavailable they will be returned.
Entered as Second-class Matter in the Post Office at New York, N. Y.
316
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
Atlanta University
I» beautifully located in the City of Atlanta, Qa
The courses of study include High School, Nor-
mal School and College, with manual training
and domestic science. Among the teacherB are
graduates of Yale, Harvard, Dartmouth, Smith
and Wellesley. Forty-two years of ffuccessful
work have been completed. Students come from
all parts of the South. Graduates are almost
universally successful.
For further information address
President EDWARD T. WARE
ATLANTA, GA.
Knoxville College
Beautiful Situation. Healthful Location
The Best Moral and Spiritual Environment.
A Splendid Intellectual Atmosphere.
Noted for Honest and Thorough Work.
Offers full courses in the following departments:
College, Normal, High School, Grammar School and
Industrial.
Good water, steam heat, electric lights, good
drainage. Expenses very reasonable.
Opportunity for Self-help.
Fall Term Began September, 1913.
For information address
President R. W. McGRANAHAN
KNOXVILLE, TENN.
Agricultural
and Mechanical College
Maintained by the govern-
ments of North Carolina and of
| the United States. Open all the
year round. For males only.
Fall term began September 1,
1913.	Strong faculty. Excellent
equipment. Successful gradu-
ates. Board, lodging and tuition,
$7 per month. For catalog or
further information address
JAMES B. DUDLEY
!	President
GREENSBORO, N. C.
"In the Heart of the Healthy Hills"
The Agricultural and
Mechanical College
NORMAL, ALABAMA
Makes a special effort to meet the needs of
young people who must work out their own salva-
tion. It gives breadwinners a chance to go to
school and so puts a flrst-clasi English education and
a trade within the reach of every young person of
push and purpose.
Board, lodging and washing cost $9 per month.
An entrance fee of $10 covers medicine, hospital
care and doctor’s bill for the year.
. School opens the first Monday in October and
closes the last Thursday in May.
WALTER S. BUCHANAN, President
Virginia Theological Seminary and
College, Lynchburg, Va.
COLLEGE OF LIBERAL ARTS — Standard
Bachelor of Arts Course (B.A.). Scientific Course
leading to the degree Bachelor of Science (B.S.).
THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY—With full theo-
logical course leading to degree of Bachelor of
Divinity (B.D.), including Greek, Hebrew, Sociology
and Social Psychology.
ACADEMIC COURSE—Which prepares for col-
lege, teaching and professional schools.
NORMAL DEPARTMENT—Offering special train-
ing to teacherB. Doing extensive work in Pedagogy
and Education. Co-educational.
Three hundred and five students last year, repre-
senting fifteen States, South and West Coast Africa,
South America and British West Indies.
Strong, efficient, experienced faculty.
ROBERT C. WOODS, President.
Uirginia Union University
RICHMOND, VA.
A College Department, of high standards and
modern curriculum.
A Theological Department, with all subjects
generally required in the best theological seminaries.
An Academy, with manual training, giving a
preparation for Ijfe or for college.
The positive moral and religious aim of the
Bcbool, its high standards of entrance and of class
work, its fine new buildings and well-equipped
laboratories and library prepare a faithful student
for a life of wide usefulness.
GEORGE RICE HOVEY, President
ST. MARY’S SCHOOL
An Episcopal boarding and day school
for girls, under the direction of the Sisters
of St. Mary. Address:
THE SISTER-IN-CHARGE
611 N. 43d St.	W. Philadelphia, Pa.
BISHOP COLLEGE, MARSHALL. TEX.
Maintains college, academic, theological, musical, normal,
grammar and Industrial departments. Offers the most ad-
ranced courses and Is the best-eaulpped school for Negroes in
the Southwest For Information address
C. H. MAXSON, President
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
317
NUMEROUS OPPORTUNI-
ST I E S FOR ALL TO
LEARN A
USEFUL TRADE
In Enterprise Institute, Incorpor-
ated and Located at Chicago, 111.
More than forty trades taught.
Prices very low and terms easy.
Call at or address
Enterprise Institute
Rev. G. H. McDaniel, D. D., Pres.
3711 State St. -	- -Chicago, 111.
CARNEGIE COLLEGE-HOME STUDY
“60 PAGE BULLETIN FREE”
-----------------1 COURSES BY MAIL
I Grammar School	Agricultural
• High School	Poultry^
1 Norma _	Domestic Science
Professiona	CiriI Service
Penmanship	Engineering
Type-writing	Drawing
Short-hand	English
Book-keeping	Language
Law	Real Estate
Redneed rates of tuition to first
applicants. For “Free Bulletin”
. and "Special Scholarship,” apply
CARNEGIE COLLEGE
Pres. GALBREATH______No. 13D St.. ROGEBS. Ohio.
RELIABLE, LIVE,
RESPONSIBLE MEN
who can sell real estate can MAKE MORE
than $200 PER MONTH acting as
AGENTS for the sale of our properties in
MUSKOGEE and TAFT, OKLAHOMA.
The real coming country where there are
opportunities and openings for all. Write
, us to-day, giving your age and experience,
and we will offer you a FINE PROPOSI-
TION WHICH WILL MAKE YOU
MONEY. Address
REEVES REALTY CO.
Department C
217 Flynn-Ames Bldg. Muskogee, Okla.
		
	Kelly Miller’s Monographic Magazine A comprehensive, precise, clear-cut essay in each number. Published by Kelly Miller, say, once a month. Ten cents a single copy; $1 a year (twelve numbers). NOW READY No. 1. Education for Manhood. Kelly Miller. No. 2. The Political Plight of the Negro. Kelly Miller. No. 3. The Social and Industrial Capacity of Negroes. (Part I.) No. 4. The Social and Industrial Capacity of Negroes. (Part II.) Agents wanted everywhere. Address: KELLY	MILLER’S	MAGAZINE Howard University	-	Washington, D. G.	
Mention The Crisis.
318
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
OF INTEREST TO VOCAL STUDENTS
TONE-PLACING AND
VOICE- DEVELOPMENT
Points explained, viz.: Breath
in Singing, Trying the Voice, the
Soprano, the Mezzo-Soprano, the
Contralto, Tenor Leggiero or High
Tenor, the Baritone, the Bass,
Parts of the Vocal Apparatus, the
Mouth, the Tongue, Position When
Practising, Position When Singing,
How to Practice, Good Buies for
Singing.
Comment from the world-renowned conductor of
the Paulist Choir of Chicago, 111., whose choir has
just received the first prize awarded at the Sing-
ing Contest held in Paris on May 25, 1912:
“Dear Mr. Tinsley:
“I take great pleasure in commending your Tory useful and
succinctly written book on *Tone-Plaolno and Voice-Develop-
ment.’ Tour own appreciation of the psychology of singing
and the fundamental principles of the art you hare cleverly
reduced to a almple system.	Cordially yours,
“Father WILLIAM J. FINN. C. S. P..
Director Paulist Choristers of Chicago."
From “Musical Courier.” N. Y.: "A very practical little
book Is ‘Tone-Plaolng and Voice-Development.’ by Pedro T.
Tinsley. It contains some very excellent material and vocal
exercises, and should be in the hands of all vocal students.*'
From "Music News." Chicago, I1L: “Accordingly his
'Practical Method of Singing’ la a most concise and practical
little manual, containing many valuable vocal exercises. It
cannot fall to be helpful to all ambitious vocal students."
HELPED HIM GREATLY
"Since I practised your exercises of ‘Tone-Placing
and Voice-Development’ my voice is more resonant
than it has been for years. It seems to me that I
am getting a new voice." Prof. John T. Layton’
Director Coleridge-Taylor Musical Society, 1722 10th
St., N. W., Washington, D. G.
PRICE $1.00
Address the publisher: PEDRO T. TINSLEY
6448 Drexel Avenue	CHICAGO, ILL.
ARCHITECTS
TANDY & FOSTER
Architects
1931 Broadway	New York
Telephone 5368 Columbus
H.	HENRY HARRIS
Architect
Cor. 8th and Princess Streets
Wilmington, N. C.
WILLIAM L. BELL
Architect
138J4 Auburn Avenue - - - Atlanta, Ga.
WANTED
Agents for The Crisis. Dignified work
Address
26 Vesey Street, New York
$25.00 PER WEEK
may be made in commissions by partieB handling
"History of Negro Soldiers in Spanish-American
War" combined with "History of the Negro Race."
400 pages, 50 illustrations. Price $1.25 net.
Address:
E. A. JOHNSON
164 Nassau Street -	-	- New York
LEARN TO READ MUSIO AT SIGHT „
P0R $1.00, K K B

Ono copy of any of the following included:
Educated Frog, Octoroon, Now Century
March, New Century Waltz, Anthem Collec-
tion, Song Service; or whole list for $2.
Music published or arranged for publication.
"Smith's Orchestra”
HIGH-CLASS MUSIC REPRESENT-
ING OUR OWN COMPOSERS
Smith's Sight Roader, 60c copy:
"Emancipation Hymn," single copy 6c;
per doz., 55c; per 100, $4.35, prepaid. Band
and Orchestra arrangoment, 60c a copy.
Positions at actual pitch for Cornets,
Altos, Trombones, Valve nnd Slide, scales and
valuable hints. Never been offered before by
anyone; to anyone.
"We’ve Walked Side by Side" (Song
Bring Back My Childhood Days)...........25c
Song Service for Sunday Schools.........10c
Anthem	Book ..........................25c
Marches	for Piano......................26c
"Delaware Triumph," "Delaware Col-
lege,"	"Lovers’	Retreat,"	"Tuskegee
March"	(To Dr. B.	T.	Washington),	String
Quartettes, Violin and Piano selections,
Violin "positions" and scales; instruction
diagrams for ’Cello and Bass, Viola and
Plano. Send cash with order.
Published by WM. D. SMITH
1647 North Camac St.	Philadelphia, Pa.
WHAT THE WORLD IS SAYING ABOUT
“A
Dreaming’
By
FENTON
JOHNSON
Who is acclaimed by prominent critics, leading
authors and the international press as the foremost
romantic poet and one of the greatest writers of
African strain.
"Praiseworthy in the ways of imagination, mys-
ticism and romance."—Chicago "Daily News."
Josephine Turck Baker, editor of "Correct Eng-
lish," 6ays: "When the young poet brought his
verses to me I felt that a new singer had come
among us, singing of love, of passion, of joy and
sorrow, sounding the depths and climbing the
heights. In the brighter passages there exists the
deft touch of the born artist, while in the deeper
moments he makes sentient the emotions of the
soul—a soul that has lived and suffered."
Published by Peterson Company, Chicago. Vellum
de luxe edition, 75 cents, net, illustrated.
Now running in its second edition.
Agents wanted in colleges, towns and cities.
I Address:
CENTRAL DISTRIBUTION STATION
3522 State Street Suite 5 Chicago, 111.
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS
Vol. 6—No. 7	NOVEMBER, 1913	Wkole No. 37
SOCIAL UPLIFT.
T OUIS GRIFFITHS, who served on the
staff of the commander at the national
camp of the Grand Army of the Republic
held in Chattanooga, Tenn., in September,
was the first colored man to serve in this
capacity.
<3 Dr. A. B. Schultz-Knighten, a colored
woman, was one of the jurors on the third
jury of women appointed by Judge Owen in
Chicago for the trial of insane women.
<3 A black Zulu speaking three European
languages has been ordained a priest in
Rome.
<3 Amos Williams, a colored farmer living
near Poughkeepsie, N. Y., recently saved the
lives of a white man and his wife who were
in danger of being killed in a runaway
accident.
<3 Rev. A. J. Carey represented the Negro
race at the Perry centennial .celebration at
Put-in-Bay, Lake Erie, 0. He was one of
four speakers.
<3 Father John McGuire, the pastor of the
colored Catholic church in St. Louis, is
establishing a Negro settlement and training
school for colored working girls in that city.
<3 Negroes in Cleveland, 0., have purchased
thirty-four acres of land in Hamilton
County on which they propose to erect a
school for boys.
*3 The colored people of New Orleans are
to have a new branch library.
<3 A colored woman, Mrs. Joseph Shreeves,
represented Illinois at the annual convention
of the Spanish-American war veterans in
Buffalo, N. Y.
<3 William Reilly, a Southern landowner, has
furnished homes and small farms for thirty
Negroes formerly in his employ.
<3 The colored churches of Philadelphia have
presented a memorial to the late J. D.
Kelly, a prominent member of the relief
committee of reconstruction times.
<1 Reports submitted at the meeting of the
Alabama Federation of Colored Women’s
Clubs showed that the clubs of this State had
distributed $12,000 during the year for
reform and educational work.
<3 A. C. Taylor, a colored aviator, will make
his first flight in an aeroplane, which he is
constructing, at the State fair in Richmond.
A memorial has been erected to Dr.
Edward Wilrnot Blyden in Sierra Leone,
where he spent his last years. A subscrip-
tion fund for final payments on the memo-
rial has been started in England.
<3 The building which is to house the
National Industrial Orphan School at
Centralia, Cal., for Negroes has been
started.
<1 All the members of the white longshore-
men’s union in Mobile, Ala., are on strike to
enforce the demands of 2,000 Negro
longshoremen.
<3 The Southern Labor Congress which met
at Nashville recently, representing nearly all
the trades unions of the South, decided, after
a long debate, to admit colored men to the
organization.
320
THE CRISIS
<] Two young colored fellows, Sloan and
Thompson, saved 317 lives in the Dayton
flood. They have been recommended for
Carnegie medals.
Henry West, a one-armed colored flagman
in Asbury Park, lost his life in saving two
9-year-old boys who were driving a pony
across the tracks before an approaching
train.
EDUCATION.
THE board of education ' has ordered
seven new schools erected for Negroes
in Mecklenburg County, N. C. The board
will furnish the material and the people of
the districts will erect the buildings..
<J Many have sent subscriptions for the
support of the Berean Manual Training
School in Philadelphia. This school, for-
merly supported by the State, was cut off
entirely by Governor Teuer when he acted
on the appropriation bills passed by the
last legislature.
<] St. Martin’s College, in Philadelphia,
which had enrolled thirty or forty colored
youths from the poorer sections of the town,
has been compelled to close down because of
the lack of funds.
<J Fisk University received $1,000 from the
estate of the late William Cutting.
A site has been purchased near Eagle
Ford, Tex., for the projected rescue normal
and industrial institute for Negroes.
Q The Manual aud Industrial School for
Colored Youths, at Bordentown, N. J., has
been reorganized on a vocational basis and
the school term has been lengthened sixty
days.
Miss Dora Holmes, who has been ap-
pointed to teach in the public schools of
Haverhill, Mass., will be the first colored
teacher appointed in these schools.
In addition to the $15,000 which the
National Baptist Association has been con-
tributing yearly to home missions, the asso-
ciation now plans a theological school in
Tennessee for the training of Negroes.
<J White teachers have been appointed in
the McCarthy school for Negroes in New
Orleans.
<1 After a long controversy the decision that
Chinese are nof colored permits the children
of this race to attend the white public
schools in Covington, Kv.
ECONOMICS.
rrT HE Ohio business directory of colored
men aud women for 1913 has been
published and shows, of the entire popula-
tion of 4,767,121, a colored population of
223,994. There are 1,215 business enter-
prises in the fifty-one towns represented in
the directory.
<1 Sarah Rector, a 10-year-old colored girl
-of Muskogee, Okla., has a yearly income of
$11,000 from oil wells which she has
inherited.
Negroes in Charleston, S. C., have
opened a ten-cent store which gives employ-
ment to twenty-five colored people.
<] Dr. J. T. Williams, a colored citizen of
Charlotte, N. C., has opened a hotel in that
city for the accommodation of members of
his race. The hotel contains twenty bed-
rooms and all modern appointments.
Q Money is being raised by the colored
people of Chicago for a wholesale house and
a department store which will give employ-
ment to 300 Negroes.
<1 Dr. Clinton Barnett, a colored physician
of Huntington, W. Va., owns and manages
a modern private hospital valued at $25,000.
Negroes of Washington, D. C., have
opened the Industrial Savings Bank.
<S Negroes have opened a bank in Ocala, Fla.
MEETINGS.
r I1 HE national Baptist convention and
jubilee anniversary of the Negroes’
freedom was held in Nashville, Tenn., Sep-
tember 17. The exposition connected with
the convention was held two miles from the
city in a forty-acre park worth $300,000 and
owned by an ex-slave.
<3 The Freedmen’s Relief Committee of
Philadelphia held their fiftieth anniversary
celebration in Philadelphia September 8-17.
<1 The Sigma Pi Phi, a national Greek-
letter fraternity of colored college gradu-
ates, had their grand boule at Washington,
D. C., September 10-12.
<1 Semi-centennial celebrations of the eman-
cipation of the Negro are being held in
Chicago, Richmond, Ind., New Orleans and
other places. At all of these celebrations
the main purpose is to show the progress
of the Negro in his fifty years of freedom.
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
321
*3 The sixth annual session of the National
Association of Colored Nurses was held in
Philadelphia September 3-5. Two hundred
and fifty were present.
<1 The National Independent Political
League met in Boston during September to
devise a campaign in defense of colored
citizens.
^ The National Emancipation Commemora-
tive Society, of Washington, D. C., celebrated
the emancipation anniversary on September
22.
<3 Although Connecticut has no State ap-
propriation, the colored citizens held a three-
days celebration at White City, Savin Rock,
which began September 25.
*3 Negro mail clerks met in St. Louis
October 2-4 and organized a national
association.
*3 The tenth annual session of ihe National
Association of Teachers in Colored Schools
met in Little Rock, Ark., August 3.
<3 The Beecher centennial was held in
Plymouth Church, Brooklyn, October 21.
Prof. Kelly Miller and Mrs. A. W. Hunton
were the chief speakers.
<3 Richmond, Va., is holding a semi-centen-
nial celebration.
MUSIC AND ART.
A BENEFIT performance was held under
the auspices of the Richmond Music
Association and the Richmond Commercial
Club, both white organizations, for Wesley
Ploward, a young colored violinist, who
graduated from high school in Richmond
this spring. Over $500 was netted.
<3 A large colored company under the direc-
tion of G. G. Williams will give Edwin H.
Hackley’s musical romance, “The Ambas-
sador,” in Philadelphia on November 6.
<3 Miss Effie Grant, a young colored
vocalist of exceptional talent and the first
colored graduate from the Yale Musical
Conservatory, with [Miss Helen Minnis, a
brilliant young pianist, gave a recital at the
White Congregational Church, of Racine,
Wis.
q Mrs. Hackley conducted a class in oratorio
for a month in the Hampton Institute sum-
mer school. She will in the future devote
her time to giving the masses of Negroes
vocal training.
*1 Arrangements have been completed for the
Clef Club to make a tour of several large
cities after their initial concert at the eman-
cipation exposition.
PERSONAL.
"PHILADELPHIA was represented at the
-*■ International Congress on School
Hygiene, held in Buffalo, by Dr. John P.
Turner, the only colored inspector of that
city. Dr. Turner’s exhibit, which won the
first prize, was selected from a long list.
q David Francis, a colored scholar, who was
a sort of recluse, died at Flemington, N. J.,
recently, leaving an estate which is valued
at $250,000.
<3 In the September Crisis we stated incor-
rectly that Mr. Bourne is chief proofreader
for the Riverside Press. He has charge of
the mechanical department of the Atlantic
Monthly.
<3 J. A. Crawford, of Boston, has been
appointed bail commissioner.
*31 Alfred Cowan, the well-known Brooklyn
lawyer, died in Norfolk on September 9. His
widow is also a lawyer.
*3 Fred. N. Campbell, a colored boy of
London, Canada, has invented an airship
destroyer. He claims that two of them will
protect a city as large as Toronto.
<J A colored man, Mr. J. B. Clarke, has been
appointed to teach Spanish in the evening
high schools of New York. He received the
highest rating in the competitive examina-
tions for men.
<3 Lavelette Witten, a young colored girl of
Springfield, [Mass., won a prize for essay
writing, competing with forty others.
<3 At the fourth annual Amenia (N. Y.)
field day on August 16 Miss Mary Carl, a
colored girl, took the part of Mother Nature
in a play festival representing “The Four
Seasons,” in which all the other dancers,
about seventy in number, were white. Miss
Carl’s part was the most important.
FOREIGN.
rT"r HE local labor federation of Perth,
Australia, has protested to the post-
master-general that the employment of a
colored doctor on the mail steamer “Orontes”
is a contravention of the white labor con-
dition in the mail contract.
322
THE CRISIS
In China, during the past year, sentences
varying from ten to twenty years have been
passed on many colored coolies for “rioting”
and “attempting murders” of European
estate owners. In most cases the trouble
resulted from the failure of the managers to
pay the coolies promptly and the habit of
abusing them when they wanted to stop
work. Retaliation of the laborers resulted
in the imprisonment. To remedy this a bill
has been introduced which will enforce
punctual payment of the coolies.
The late Sir Alfred Jones, president of
the Elder Dempster Steamship Co., has
bequeathed $20,000 for the promotion of
technical education in British West Africa,
and considerable sums for the study and
treatment of tropical diseases, with hospitals
and laboratories at Sierra Leone and at
Liverpool.
•J At Barbados, the West India island which
has the best educational system, a bill to
raise the age limit for attendance in the
grade schools to 16 years from 14 was
defeated, largely through the efforts of
colored men prominent in the legislature
and government service. As the result of a
petition signed by 6,000 persons under the
leadership of another group of colored men,
the white majority of the legislature and
board of education compromised by voting
to permit the attendance at school of
children who could show some good reason
for failing to complete their course between
the ages of 7 and 14, the present maximum.
<1 Thirty-four native and colored women who
rebelled against the Pass laws of Bloem-
fontein, South Africa, have been sentenced
to two months, hard labor, but still remain
firm in their determination not to be treated
as chattels.
A great outcry comes from the natives of
South Africa against the land act which
has just been passed. This act forbids
natives to acquire land or an interest in
land outside of the areas set aside as the
native reserves. The purpose of the law is
to segregate natives from Europeans.
POLITICAL.
THE Jefferson Political League, of
Denver, Col., has sent a strong pro-
test to Congress against the “Jim Crow”
marriage law which places Africans and
those of African descent in the same class
with criminals, mental defectives, those with
tubercular diseases, etc.
The citizens of New York City are
making plans for the organization of a
civic league which will conduct a campaign
to secure Negro representation in the ad-
ministration of the city’s affairs.
<1 Ralph E. Langston has been appointed
special agent under agent John W. Sinsel, of
the New York division of the Internal
Revenue Department.
<1 Representative Henry George was referred
to the Southern Senators by the President
when he wished to recommend several
Negroes in his district for Federal
appointments.
THE GHETTO.
r f 9 HE principal of the New Jersey Avenue
school, in Atlantic City, refused to
enroll colored children at the beginning of
this school year.
Henry Kearney, who was sentenced to
serve ten years in Jackson, Miss., for man-
slaughter, has been pardoned because one
member of the jury confessed that some of
the jurors convicted him simply “to keep the
Negro down.”
A white carriage driver in Cincinnati
refused to drive a carriage occupied by
colored people. He claimed that it was
against the rules of the drivers’ union to
drive any open carriage containing Negroes.
*1 Springfield, 111., is paying $45,000 to the
relatives of those slain in the riot of 1908.
“Jim Crow” cars still go into Ohio
contrary to the laws.
J. H. Duckery wished to take a summer
course at the Y. M. C. A. in Philadelphia,
but was refused on account of color. The
young man’s father threatened to publish
the actions of the Y. M. C. A. and demand
that the name Christian be taken from the
organization. Duckery was then admitted.
<J All of the colored girls working in Butler
Brothers’ wholesale house in Dallas, Tex.,
except one, left because they were not
allowed to use the passenger elevator.
<J Sixty colored school children marched to
the Roslyn, L. I., public school demanding
entrance and the abolishment of the separate
school provided for them. They were
threatened with arrest if they did not leave.
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
323
<J Andrew Sims, a Negro, of Newark, N. J.,
has brought suit against Isaac Boyland,
alleging that he was refused admittance to a
motion-picture theatre owned by Boyland.
Negro soldiers in the Philippines are said
to be compelled to labor with pick and shovel
in mud and water, even on Sundays, while the
white soldiers are exempt from this labor.
When a colored real-estate dealer of
Los Angeles called at the property assessor’s
office recently he found no names of Negro
owners or occupants in the books, but in
each case simply “occupied by niggers.”
•2 Georgia Curry, a colored woman, who was
asked some time ago to vacate her seat in
Fox’s Theatre in Brooklyn, N. Y., won a
suit against the company for $150.
*3 A colored mail clerk between Norfolk and
Raleigh, N. C., had as a subordinate a white
man who had passed a less creditable exam-
ination than the Negro. The matter was
complained of and now the positions of the
white and colored man have been reversed.
<3 Eight of twelve colored convicts confined
in a dark cell were suffocated at Harlem
State farm, Tex. There were four one-inch
ventilation holes in the cell over which the
survivors held their faces. The ages of the
victims ranged from 17 to 19 years. Two
guards and one sergeant, who were at first
placed under appearance bonds on charge of
murder, have been permanently released from
the charge.
<1 Commander George R. Downs refused to
allow discrimination against the Negro at the
army and navy union at Philadelphia.
<3 Students who formerly attended Southern
University in New Orleans have no place to
go now, as the Negro schools do not provide
for any course above the sixth grade. The
school board had planned to establish a
Negro industrial and high school in the
Southern University building, but because of
a strong protest from the property owners
against having a Negro school in that
vicinity the board has abandoned this idea.
<1 A house recently bought and occupied by
Owens Fuller, a Baltimore Negro, was bom-
barded by a crowd of white men and boys
who shattered window panes and battered
the woodwork. The police, although the
stationhouse was only two blocks away, did
not come upori the scene of the mob until
twelve hours after it happened. Three other
houses owned by colored people in Baltimore
were attacked at about the same time.
<1 The Camberwell poor-law guardians of
London, England, refused to appoint a
colored physician whose qualifications were
above those of the other candidates, on the
ground that the fastidious poor would refuse
to be attended by a Negro.
*3 Postmaster B. H. Jones, of the Atlanta,
Ga., postoffice, began his administration by
placing the white employees on the eastern
and most desirable side of the office and the
colored employees on the western side.
<3 A white hotel keeper was compelled by
the white citizens to leave Wynne, Ark.,
because he had his white waitresses serve
supper to a large number of Negroes en
route to the national Baptist convention.
<3 Maxine Elliot, in a cablegram to the
New York Age, denied the report that she
had refused to be borne from the stage by
two colored men in the play in which she
is appearing in London.
<3 A meeting was held by white people
living in Sunbrook Park, Baltimore, to pro-
test against the moving of Morgan College
for Negroes to that vicinity. As a result
Judge Duncan, of the Baltimore circuit
court, has granted an injunction restraining
Morgan College from taking any action that
would result in the settlement in this vicinity
of any Negroes or persons of Negro descent,
“except in the capacity of servants.”
<3 William H. Webster, white, and Nellie
Rolls, colored, were arrested in Baltimore
on their return from Washington, D. C.,
where they had been married, charged with
violating the miscegenation laws of
Virginia.
<1 George Howe, a colored resident of 95
Harford Avenue, Baltimore, in the attempt
to protect his home, fired into the tnob at-
tacking the house and injured four men.
He was arrested while the mob threatened to
lynch him and was struck by several mem-
bers of the mob. When tried he was given
a sentence of two months each for the first
three offenses, but through the efforts of the
National Association for the Advancement
of Colored People these decisions were
appealed and he is now under $500 bail
awaiting a jury trial for the fourth case.
None of his white assailants in the mob
were arrested.
324
THE CRISIS
q Dr. H. E. Lee, of Houston, Tex., was
informed by the New York Post Graduate
Hospital that he would be admitted to their
clinics. When he disclosed the fact that he
was colored the offer was withdrawn.
CRIME.
t-T ENRY CROSBY, a Negro, was lynched
**• at Louisville, Miss., because he
frightened a white woman by his “strange
actions.” The “strange actions” consisted in
asking the woman if her husband was at
home.
q One Negro was killed and another
injured by a posse in Cairo, 111., after being
tracked by bloodhounds. The killing was the
result of a dispute between the Negroes and
a merchant in the town.
q Mr. Ralston, a well-known citizen of
Wichita, Kan., firing into a cornfield to
frighten some white boys who were in his
watermelon patch, shot one of the boys who
had hidden in the cornfield. By eluding the
mob, which immediately formed, he reached
the Ardmore prison safely, but later, while
being taken to Paul’s Valley for trial, he was
taken from the officers and lynched.
William Davis was lynched on the charge
of killing two white men and wounding a
third.
*3 Joseph Richardson, a Negro charged with
attacking a white boy or girl (which, does
Dot seem to be clear), was taken from a jail
in Litchfield, Ky., by a posse and lynched.
q Walter Brownloe, accused of attacking a
white woman, was taken from the prison in
Hinchcliffe, Miss., and lynched.
q In an altercation between a white man,
McGougar, and Thomas Anderson, a Negro,
both were killed and the body of the Negro
was smeared with oil and burned. The white
man was buried with elaborate ceremony.
q William Fair, who barely escaped lynch-
ing on the charge of a crime against.a white
woman, has been found not guilty.
<3 A Negro who enlisted in the Mississippi
National Guard without mentioning his race
barely escaped lynching when it was dis-
covered that he was colored,
q Louis White, a colored overseer of a farm
in Germantown, Tenn., and another Negro
were fired upon by two white boys as they
were driving along near the farm. White
was killed and his companion fatally
wounded. The murderers have not been
found.
q Moses Holman, on his way to Cincinnati,
was passing through a white coach to get
to the coach for colored people when some
dispute arose between the Negro and several
white men. Holman was killed by a shot
from one man and a stab from another,
q In a recent race riot in Harrison, Miss.,
ten were killed and thirty wounded. Two
Negroes who were accused of beginning the
riot by shooting through the town were
lynched and the 2,000 colored inhabitants of
Harrison were marched past their coffins
and compelled to view the mutilated re-
mains. Now the mother of these two Negroes,
accused of being the chief plotter, is in jail
and an organized mob lies in wait for her.
The majority of those killed were Negroes,
q George Deese, a Montgomery constable,
was freed from the charge of killing
Benjamin Josephs, a Negro. The defense
was that the Negro was reaching for his
revolver when Deese fired,
q Preston Jones, a Negro accused of killing
Samuel Hickey, a white patrolman, has been
sentenced to hang in Nashville, Tenn.
q Charles Guth, who killed his colored
chauffeur in a dispute which arose because
Guth didn’t want his milk delivered at the
same time as his chauffeur’s, has been freed
from the charge.
q Albert Sorgee, the superintendent of the
Aiken County chain gang, has been arrested
on the charge of murdering a Negro by
whipping.
q Julius Dorsey, a 10-year-old colored boy
who was sent to the Mississippi penitentiary,
has been pardoned by Governor Brewer, who
considers him too young to be serving the
State.
q G. S. Nanch, a white man of Brockingham,
N. C., who murdered his wife and had been
pronounced insane, was threatened with
lynching. The sheriff got advance informa-
tion, however, and skilfully “evaded the
angry mob.”
q A mob of striking miners assaulted three
colored non-union men when they left the
train at Trinidad, Col. The hack driver, who
was at the station with a justice of the
peace in the hack, was compelled to drive
away, so the fate of the three Negroes is
not known. John Stone was the only one
of the three whose name was known.
A FLORIST.
PEYTON M. DeWITT, of Bridgewater,
Pa., is rated by Bradstreet at $40,000.
Mr. DeWitt is one of the most successful
horticulturalists in the country and has
worked up in his trade from gardener’s
assistant to the proprietor of a large business
which has put several new varieties of
flowers on the market. He was born in
Georgia just before the outbreak of the Civil
War, and came with his mother and her
three other children to Bristol, Pa. At the
age of 8 he was a mule driver on the
canal and then became a gardener.
In the summer of.lSSO came the first
undertaking—a partnership with his brother
in a small house, 12x50, at Bristol. After
DE. GEORGE W. BUCKNEB.
seven years of successful effort he became the
sole proprietor of a large establishment at
Torresdale. For the past fifteen years the
plant has been beautifully located at Bridge-
water upon a tract of thirty acres. The
plant comprises, 'roughly, eight greenhouses,
each having a depth of 150 feet and a
breadth of twenty feet, covered by 20,000
feet of glass; a central hot-water plant under
pressure, fed by-two boilers of twenty-five
and forty horse power, respectively; a water
tank of 15,000 gallons capacity and other
necessary equipment.
A regular force of six men is employed,
including a very capable foreman, who has
been in Mr. DeWitt’s service for eighteen
years.
PEYTON M. DeWITT.
326
THE CRISIS
MB. DeWITT’S CONSERVATORIES.
During the busy season, from October to
June, from 500 to 1,000 carnations and
chrysanthemums are shipped daily to two
leading wholesale
houses in Philadel-
phia. While other
varieties of flowers
are cultivated, carna-
tions and chrysan-
t h e m u m s are Mr.
DeWitt’s specialty.
A few years ago he
succeeded in market-
ing a new variety—a
dark pink carna-
tion—known as the
Pennsylvania, but
called by many the
DeWitt. At present
he has other good
varieties on trial, a
white one being
especially promising.
THE MINISTER TO
LIBERIA.
PRESIDENT
WILSON has
nominated and the
Senate has confirmed
George W. Buckner, of Evansville, Ind., as
United States Minister to Liberia. Dr.
Buckner was born in Greens County, Ky.,
and was educated in
the public schools of
Indianapolis and
Terre Haute. He
took his medical
course at the Eclectic
Medical College of
Indianapolis, where
he was graduated in
1890. He is a prac-
tising physician in
Evansville and has a
wife and four
children.
m
A STATE
LIBRARIAN.
Mr. william
WALTER
SANDERS has just
been appointed State
librarian of West
Virginia. Mr.
Sanders was born in
Henry County, Va.,
October 16,	1873.
He was educated in
W. W. SANDERS.
MEN OF THE MONTH
327
MB. BLODGETT AND HIS HOME.
the district schools and the Presbyterian
School of Martinsville and at Lincoln
University, where he graduated from the
college department in 1S97 and the theo-
logical department in 1900. For ten years
he was the pastor of the Hope Presbyterian
Church, Chambersburg, Pa. Thence he went
to West Virginia as teacher in the public
schools.
A CONTRACTOR.
lyr R. L. M. BLODGETT, one of the lead-
**• ^ ing contractors of Los Angeles, Cal.,
was born in Summerville, S. C., thirty-five
years ago. His family belonged in Augusta
and returned there when he was 10 years of
age. He attended the local schools and
learned his trade of mason and finally decided
to settle in California. He says:
“On coming to California I found that I
was still a colored man and for which fact the
people here thought that I should be debarred
from making a living at my trade as a
journeyman. But there was plenty of work
and I knew how to do it right. So I began
taking small contracts and increasing the
size as my capital and working force
increased. This color business, which seemed
to be a bar, turned to be advertisement for us.
“I have employed more than 1,512 men
during the last year. The total amount
actually contracted for during the year was
$107,730.26. I employed both skilled and
unskilled labor of all races and denomina-
tions. I own my own teams, concrete mixer,
hoists and such machinery as is required in
the erection of a building.”
OFFICERS OF THE LAW
T N one year fifty murders done,
With flashing knife and banging gun—
You should worry!
Some twenty girls found in fresh blood;
Near them are tracks, inch deep in mud—
You should worry!
The clumsy slayer’s still at large;
No clue, as yet, much less a charge—
You should worry!
One death is London’s sole disgrace,
While fifty shame Atlanta’s face—
You should worry!
For spooning at the capitol
Now shakes your brave, chivalric soul—
What a crime!
Courageously you seize the pair
Who make love in the open air—
What a crime!
Now secretly ’twould be all right;
But out there in the starlit night—
What a crime!
A kiss! Oh, help ! Some hugging, too—
Of course, these things YOU never do!
What a crime!
Who thinks you’d face a killer’s gun,
That’s seen you from a mad dog run?
But drag a maid’s name to disgrace
For an innocent kiss in a public place—
Ah! What a valiant thing to do,
Since horsewhips have their dangers, too.
—Atlanta Constitution.
SOME
SOUTHERN
LOGIC.
Many people find it difficult to
follow- the logic of white
Southerners in regard to
Negroes. Certainly the three
extracts from Southern papers which fol-
low will not lessen their difficulties. The
South Carolina lynchings have stirred the
Columbia State to strong editorial; and one
white correspondent says:
“I have lately reached a point to which
years of consideration of this matter of pub-
lic murder of Negroes have been bringing
me; I assume as a matter of fact that the
lynched Negro is not only a murdered man,
but an innocent murdered man, and I am
pretty sure I am not alone in this state of
mind. Why should I be? At the present
time a Negro can be murdered by any body
of white men in South Carolina with im-
punity, if only a woman, an anonymous
woman, .bripg an indefinite accusation
against him. Your readers must have noticed
that neither the husband’s nor the father’s
name was given in the papers in connection
with this supposed assault in Anderson.
Certainly there are most obvious reasons for
not publishing names, but very little thought
is needed to see the horrible danger to the
community if vague accusations by anony-
mous women are sufficient to justify a man
hunt, as the sport of Negro murder is well
called. Soon an unpopular white man may
be considered a fit quarry for that sort of
chase—a man, let us say, whose views on the
subject of ‘Negro domination’ do not agree
exactly with those of his neighbors. .
“Again I want to make myself clear.
Though villainous men can easily, and no
doubt have more than once before this in-
vented such anonymous charges and so used
some woman as a pretext for a lynching, I
have no doubt almost all such cases come
about quite innocently. A sudden attack of
panic arising from general nervousness and
overstimulation of the imagination by ac-
counts of other ‘attacks,’ ‘man hunts,’ lynch-
ings and similar occurrences, and a woman
can in a moment cause a murder, when the
other conditions are ripe. Moreover, every
doctor knows, and every other man should
know, that women are peculiarly subject to
conditions of delusion on just this point.
The constant talk of danger from Negroes
makes lonely communities often into hotbeds
for this delusion. Then some poor woman
loses her self-command in a moment of
fright, and the mischief is done.
“Three years ago about this time there was
talk of lynching a Negro who had just been
condemned and was that moment to be
brought out from the Richland county court-
house here in Columbia. I mixed with the
crowd and talked to several of those ‘pro-
tectors of Southern womanhood.’ Those I
saw were all drinking. Much whiskey was in
circulation through the crowd.
“L. P. Chamberlayne.
“Columbia, September 22.”
As illustrating the kind of hysteria to
which Mr. Chamberlayne refers, we cannot
resist publishing the complaint of editor
Birdsall as given in the Yazoo City (Miss.)
Sentinel. As a frank exposition of the views
of a certain type of Southern mind we com-
mend this gem to our readers:
“There occurred last week an incident in
which the editor of this paper was con-
cerned, upon which we want to make some
comment, not to air a personal grievance,
but to consider an action which sets a prece-
dent that will act as a solvent in destroying
that wall of protection against Negro domi-
nation which was built by those who strove
forty years ago to assert and maintain white
supremacy.
“A yellow nigger by the name of Will
Stewart came to the residence of the editor
OPINION
329
in the morning to sell some chickens. It
was so early that none of the family was
completely dressed, and the cook took the
chickens upstairs for inspection. The cook,
a reliable servant that had been with the
family for four years, afterward stated that
when she took the chickens upstairs she saw
the usual morning milk sitting on the walk
near Stewart; and that she had a short time
previously seen the milkboy leave it there.
Less than three minutes after she saw the
milk sitting near Stewart, when she re-
turned to pay him for the chickens, the milk
was gone.
“The evidence that he had stolen it was
conclusive. The editor had him arrested, not
because of the value of the milk, which was
a trifle, but as a lesson against petty pil-
fering. The mulatto tried to employ Mr.
Jas. G. Holmes, of the firm of Holmes &
Holmes, to defend him, but Mr. Holmes de-
clined to take the case. The mulatto then
went to Mr. W. A. Henry, Jr., who accepted
the case for a fee of $10, we understand.
The fee was secured by Mr. J. W. Gregory,
according to his subsequent admission to the
editor.
“During the progress of the trial the
Negro uttered an infamous and most out-
rageous slander as to the editor’s wife, im-
puting to her language that no lady would
use, and which no man, with a spark of
manhood, would have heard without resent-
ment. The insult was promptly and vigo-
rously resented by violence on the part of
the editor with the only weapons at hand—
those provided by nature. The nigger lost
no time in getting away, but was subse-
quently brought back by two officers.
“The mulatto’s attorney apologized for the
coon’s language, which he said he knew was
untrue, but proceeded to make a very elo-
quent plea for his acquittal, in face of the
flagrant insult to a lady who had been his
loyal and steadfast friend from boyhood.
“The Negro was acquitted and discharged,
in face of the very strongest circumstantial
evidence, by the following jury:	Will
Rosenthall, W. R. Jones, Simon Stubblefield,
Lee Cummins, W. H. Hamel and B. E.
Bridges. In justice to Mr. Bridges, it should
be stated that he said to the editor after the
trial that he was thoroughly convinced of
the nigger’s guilt, and that he only con-
sented to the verdict, after considerable pro-
test, because he was sick, and did not want
to be detained all night on a hung jury.
“Feeling incensed and outraged to the
highest degree by the foul and infamous
slander, we sought the Negro that night and
the next morning with the fixed purpose of
inflicting a just punishment denied by the
court (?). The Negro appealed to Mr.
Gregory for protection and advice. Instead
of following a custom universal throughout
the South, he told him “he didn’t know what
was to be done except to put the white man
under a peace bond! Just think of it, ye
men of Yazoo, whose proud boast has been
that the brave men of this county were the
first in the State to overthrow nigger rule
and re-establish a white man’s government
here—think of a white man advising a nigger
to put a white man under a peace bond for
wanting to punish a nigger for resenting an
insult to a white woman.
“This nigger has a reputation of being an
insolent, drunken, quarrelsome coon, who has
been mixed up in a number of cutting
scrapes with other Negroes, and we are told
has been laid off by his employer, Mr.
Gregory, more than once for drunkenness.
“Mr. Gregory went to the mayor, where
the nigger also appeared. An affidavit was
made against the editor by direction of
Mayor Campbell, and was served by his
officers. We declined to make the bond until
we had time to consult an attorney, who was
absent from the.city at the time. We made
vigorous protest to Mayor Campbell, citing
him to the fact that a search of the records
of every court in every city in every State
in the South would not reveal a similar case
—law or no law—where a white man was
required to give a bond to keep the peace
against a nigger who had offered an insult
to a white woman. But Mayor Campbell,
with a tardily awakened sense of his duty,
said he had a duty to perform, and under
his oath he must perform it! With a great
show of authority he set the machinery of
his office in motion and almost the entire
police force was out after a white man to
put him under a peace bond that the nigger
might be protected. The editor went to
consult a friend for a half hour as to the
matter, and then at his usual hour leisurely
wended his way home, over the route always
traveled.
“Finally we appeared before Police Justice
R. R. Norquist, who had a bond prepared
in the sum of $5,000! A bank robber, a
safe blower, or desperate highwayman,
would have been treated with more con-
330
THE CRISIS
sideration. But the nigger must be pro-
tected—regardless of the insult to the white
woman. Upon request of our attorney,
however, the bond was finally reduced by the
justice to $1,000.
“Now, here is a white man who is for-
bidden by white officials to administer
punishment to a wretched, drunken, inso-
lent yellow coon for an insult offered to his
wife in a court presided over by a white
man. We have a white man, J. W. Gregory,
who aids and abets this insolent nigger in
his insolence, defending him from the conse-
quences of it. Mr. Gregory, we are told,
will be a candidate for sheriff. Will the
white voters of Yazoo County put a man
like that in the highest executive office in
the county—a man who would protect a
yellow nigger who publicly slanders and in-
sults a white woman who has always lived
her life on the highest level; a woman of
intellect, character and firmness, which others
would do well to emulate?
"And then the mayor, forsooth, saying
that he must do his duty! A man whose
administration has been notoriously feeble
and inefficient, who, when numberless ap-
peals have been made to him to enforce the
sanitary and oiher laws, has evaded action.
And yet, Tor solemn duty’s sake,’ he must
protect a yellow nigger in his assault on the
respectability of a pure white woman. We
do not say ‘lady,’ for it seems the coons are
the only ‘ladies’ nowadays.
‘‘Not long ago an Assyrian, a friendless
member of an alien race, made complaint of
assault by a white man, and asked for a
peace bond as protection. The case was
literally laughed out of court as a joke.
‘‘Some time last year a man claiming to
represent the Salvation Army made im-
proper advances to a highly respected young
lady of this city. No punishment, but to
prevent the rightful vengeance of the out-
raged father the offender was advised by the
officials to leave town.
‘‘Not long ago Ada Martin, who has
operated a blind tiger in this city in no-
torious violation of the law for the last
twenty years, was convicted, and afterward
released on a bond of $100, subsequently
jumping her bond, and yet the police judge,
in his wisdom and mature judgment, pro-
posed putting the editor of this paper, who
- had committed no crime, and who is certainly
of respectable standing in this community,
under a bond of $5,000!
“Now let us see what will be the effect of
this course: The law will not punish verbal
assaults on white women by Negroes, and yet
it prohibits personal punishment. A nigger
will do anything if he thinks he has a white
man behind him. In this case the nigger
knew that Stewart was protected by Mr.
Gregory, who, by the way, is an alderman,
and by the whole city administration. This
will be construed by them as license to offer
other insults, and no woman in the future
will be safe against them. The niggers,-
under the circumstances, will be justified in
believing that they can do anything with
impunity. We must make them feel that
they must respect white men and white
women, whether they will or not. In default
of the law, individual will must and shall
control.
“For many years the white people of the
South have asserted and maintained moral,
social and political supremacy. Moral and
intellectual superiority has been all that
has sustained such supremacy. Such cases
as the one under discussion will soon destroy
the Negro’s belief in the superiority—hence
the supremacy—of the white man.
“The lesson taught by the official act of the
mayor, the alderman and the police justice
will not be lost on the ignorant black race.
Its fruit will ripen in the blood of white
men, in nameless crimes on innocent white
women, and in other outrages on the white
race—and the responsibility will rest—not
upon the ignorant race—but upon the heads
of the shortsighted white officials who, under
the flimsy cry of a ‘duty to perform,’ up-
hold a nigger against a white man for
taking a course that every self-respecting
white man should feel was the only course
left for any white man to take under the
circumstances.”
We confess to a sneaking sympathy with
the persecuted editor, and we fear that there
will be a political upheaval in Yazoo City
at the next election.
The Macon Telegraph comes forward with
a suggestion that the abatement of lynching
has at least the charm of novelty. We give
it in the correspondent’s words:
“The grand juries, petit juries and wit-
nesses are alike unwilling to sacrifice a large
number of the members of their best fami-
lies to avenge the unlawful killing of one
sorry Negro. If the laws were so framed
that the penalty for participating in a
lynching should be a misdemeanor, I don’t
OPINION
331
believe that any thinking person will doubt
for a moment that the evidence to convict
would be forthcoming in nearly every case
of lynching, and that grand juries would
willingly and gladly probe this class of cases
with a view to breaking up the offense, and
that petit juries would willingly do their
part toward breaking up the offense by con-
victing where the evidence authorized it.
Furthermore, it is almost certain that where
the people believe that they will be brought
to the bars of justice and punished for com-
mitting this violation of the law, they will
go much slower in organizing a mob for
lynching a Negro, whereas, under the
present conditions they feel practically as-
sured from the beginning that there is
absolutely no danger of any punishment
whatever in the courts.
“Under our present law every lynching
constitutes what is called a ‘riot,’ which is a
misdemeanor. If our laws should be so
made that a lynching constituted a riot only,
and not the graver offense of murder, it is
almost certain that lynchings would be
greatly reduced, if not entirely broken up.
Though such an act by our lawmaking body
might subject them to temporary criticism on
the part of Northern writers and speakers,
yet it is not probable that such criticism
would be much more severe than it is now.
However, any plan which will tend to break
up the lynchings in Georgia would be wel-
come in the long run by all good people who
are interested in maintaining the supremacy
of the law and the fair name of Georgia as
well as of the South.	W. H. Gurr.
“'Dawson, August 16.”
The Charlotte (N. C.) Observer speaks
out with regard to the lynching there in no
uncertain way:
“Yesterday morning found Charlotte
humiliated as never before by an occurrence
unparalleled in its history, but at least it
has the consolation that as a community it
did not perpetrate and utterly abhors the
crime. The small mob which sneaked, just
before daylight, to the door of an institu-
tion devoted to the work of ministering
religion among colored people was repre-
sentative of no element except the riffraff
that habitually hangs around cafes and the
red-light district at late hours of the night.
This statement must be qualified in one way.
That mob represented a sentiment well
known by it to exist also among some mem-
bers of the police, the man wounded by the
victim of the mob being a member of the
police force. We do not at present under-
take to say whether at least morally posi-
tive assurances of police non-interference had
been received. It is certain that the police
headquarters (as also the sheriff and the
night newspaper reporters) were circum-
stantially informed from several quarters of
a lynching afoot; and that the newspaper
men, believing, later guided themselves by
the story to the spot almost on the moment,
while the officers could not be gotten in-
terested enough. •	•	•
“In the light of these facts we can but
say that the county was very poorly served
by those upon whom the immediate respon-
sibility for averring threatened lawlessness
and murder fell. It need not fear that the
machinery of the courts for punishing
murder will fail without good efforts made.
There could not be a fitter judge than Judge
T. J. Shaw, solemnly and whole-heartedly to
direct investigation into this abominable out-
rage—committed while his court was in
session here. Solicitor Wilson has turned
over all his regular docket to former
Solicitor Heriot Clarkson that he might
direct his entire energies to punishing the
thirty-five murderers, who, as Judge Shaw
reminded the grand jury, are at large to-
day. No court business that could possibly
interfere with this solemn duty will be done.
The shamed and outraged sentiment of the
public is behind the representatives of the
civilization which the mob violated, most
earnestly hoping that initial difficulties and
perjured alibis will not prevent their success.
Mayor Bland, acting with promptness and
vigor, has offered $1,000 reward for the
arrest and conviction of each and every
murderer; and the State and county authori-
ties will offer more. The only lynching
Mecklenburg County has ever known in all
its long and honorable history! The first
lynching to disgrace the State of North
Carolina in years. Justice cries to Heaven
for the vindication of the honor of city,
county and State.”
m
federal	There can be no doubt but
segregation. that the asitati°“ started by
the National Association for
the Advancement of Colored People against
the unjust and undemocratic segregation of
Federal employees in Washington has started
an agitation of deep significance.
332
THE CRISIS
From Tacoma, Wash., comes this editorial
in the News:
“The protest to President Woodrow
Wilson against the segregation of Negro
clerks in the Federal offices in Washington,
with iron bars, screens and closed doors, is
justified by the laws of the land and the
dictates of freedom and fairness. It is but
a part of the ‘Jim Crow’ movement which,
while the South may understand, the North
cannot, nor can the North sympathize with
it. The Southern democracy is in the saddle
and the colored man as an officeholder is not
a desirable political aspect with the domi-
nant party. The South’s attitude toward
the colored man is not that of hostility,
but of a kind of paternal guardianship mixed
sharply with the belief that the white is of
much superior clay. There won’t be much
difference in the last big wash.
“But the feeling exists and eradication is
a question of years and education—education
of both whites and blacks.
“The other day the dominant party re-
jected the nomination of a colored man for
an important post and soon afterward en-
dorsed an Indian for the same post with
a rather unexpected unanimity and
enthusiasm.
“We shall have the Negro with us for
many a year, and some of those who are
studying the race problem have expressed
the belief that the attitude of the white, and
not a racial blemish, is a chief hindrance to
the Negro’s progress. But he is progressing.
No race yet has shown such an adaptability
for, such a facility to, civilization. He is
getting rich, learned and cultivated. He is
running all kinds of profitable business en-
terprises and he is building schools, churches
and libraries with a persistence that predicts
great things for him in the years to come.
“Instead of grilled windows and barred
doors to keep him ‘in his place,’ the
politicians will find that it will be of less
political loss to discharge him. The kind of
segregation alleged will not be objected to by
the Negro alone. There are thousands of
white men and women who will add their
voices.”
The Public, of Chicago, sees the deeper
significance of the segregation movement
in an article on segregation and democracy:
“A violation of civil-service reform
principles, less excusable than any com-
mitted by spoilsmen, is the recent order of
the Federal Bureau of Printing and Engrav-
ing segregating colored employees. The
order reserves certain duties for colored
workmen oply and other duties for whites
exclusively. A protest has been sent to
President Wilson by the National Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Colored
People; but it should not be left to that
organization to protest alone. The issue in-
volved is not merely one of respecting the
feelings of colored persons. The bugaboo
of ‘social equality’ does not enter into the
matter at all. The first thing to bear in mind
is that the Bureau of Printing and Engrav-
ing does not exist for the purpose of formu-
lating rules of social etiquette. It exists to
perform certain work for the government.
In the performance of that work it is the
duty of those in charge to put the most
competent employees in the places where
they can perform the best service. This
cannot be done if placing of employees is
made to depend on other qualifications than
personal fitness. Discrimination against an
employee for no better reason than his
choice of ancestors is as bad as favoritism.
In principle and in effect this segregation
order is the same as nepotism. It is a far
greater injustice to the government than it
is to its Negro employees. If civil-service
reform organizations and civil-service re-
formers shut their eyes to this violation of
civil-service reform principles, then they
cannot consistently object to a return of the
old spoils system. Fear of offending anti-
Negro prejudice is no excuse for such
neglect.
“Of course there are better reasons for
objecting to this segregation order than vio-
lation of civil-service reform principles. The
order is undemocratic. Individuals have a
perfect right, for any reason or for no
reason, to refuse to associate with other
individuals. But they have no right to force
third parties to conform to their likes or dis-
likes. This order places the government of
the United States in the position of endors-
ing a prejudice which some individuals feel
toward a certain class of citizens. The
government has no right to recognize social
distinctions among citizens. Least of all
has the government of the United States a
right to recognize an aristocracy of birth.
The order should be rescinded and the official
or officials responsible therefor given a much-
needed lesson in sound democracy and true
Americanism.
“But there is a lesson in this incident that
OPINION
333
should not be lost either on the Negroes or on
the National Association for the Advancement
of Colored People, an organization composed
largely of whites. The injustice done by this
segregation order is slight compared with
other wrongs upon which most Negroes and
their friends look indifferently or even ap-
prc&ingly. The infliction of an indignity or
insult on a person should not be as galling
as the fact that conditions compel submis-
sion to the affront lest an opportunity be
lost to earn a living. Were one-half the
indignation vented in fruitless protests
against the affront directed toward the con-
ditions which compel submission it could be
put to a far more effective use. Legalized
privilege creates these conditions and forces
white as well as Negro laborers to submit to
many things against which their manhood
rebels. It is against privilege that their
protests should be leveled. Yet many a
colored man whom a thoughtless use of the
epithet ‘nigger* will inflame to madness will
cast his vote to uphold privilege. So will
many a white worker groaning under the
burdens that privilege inflicts. It is useless
to endeavor to escape injustice while up-
holding the cause of it.”
The New York Evening Post comments
on a “true note of the new South,” which
“comes to us in an editorial in the Lexington
(Kv.) Herald in regard to the segregation of
the colored employees of the government at
Washington. ‘Knowing/ it says, ‘that many
will disagree with our views, and condemn
bitterly our expression thereof/ it none the
less protests against this policy of the
national government, ‘the effect of which,
transmitted to lower channels, may be most
disastrous. No greater calamity could befall
this nation/ it insists, ‘than to have included
in its inhabitants millions of people of any
race in whose face the door of hope is shut,
who are not permitted to aspire to free and
independent citizenship, and to strive for
equal political, financial and industrial re-
ward that brawn or intellect brings to those
of any race.* These are brave words indeed,
in shiniug contrast with the utterances of
so many Southern senators who claim to
represent their section, and who certainly do
represent the reactionaries and the ignorant.
The Lexington Herald, edited by Desha
Breckinridge, bears witness to that rising
tide of protest and dissatisfaction with exist-
ing race relations which found a notable ex-
pression, in a purely scientific wav, at the
recent meeting of the Southern Sociological
Congress. The time must come when it is a
commonplace to say, as does the Herald,
that ‘no greater misfortune has come to the
South in our judgment than the enactment
of those laws the purpose of which is to pre-
vent all Negroes from voting.* What a pity
it is that the Wilson administration must
bear the odium of this segregation policy.**
The Congregationalist and Christian
World repeats the facts in an editorial en-
titled “Turning the Negro Back**:
“During the last few months orders have
been issued in the Treasury and Post Office
Departments which require white and colored
employees to use separate toilet rooms, to
be separated in lunchrooms, and most of the
colored clerks in the Post Office Department
have been gathered from the various bureaus
and assembled in the Dead Letter Office, in a
room where they are separated from white
clerks by a row of lockers placed across the
middle of the room. One important colored
clerk, whose location cannot be changed con-
veniently, has been screened off, so as to con-
ceal him from the public view and from his
fellow workers. Two or three others have
been assigned to messenger service, although
having appointments as clerks. Watchmen
are stationed at the doors of the toilet rooms
to see that colored clerks use the special ones
assigned to them on the eighth floor of the
Post Office Department building. In addition
to the humiliation involved in segregation,
thousands of dollars are being lost in time
spent in going to the eighth floor from other
floors 6f a great building occupying a city
square, although toilet rooms heretofore
used are near to all. In the Treasury
Department the toilet rooms assigned to
colored clerks are in a corner of the base-
ment, and in this great building similar loss
of time occurs.
“Soon after the issuance of these orders in
the Treasury Department segregation signs
were posted. Following a protest the signs
were taken down, but verbal warnings affirm
that the order is in force. Segregation in
work has been begun in the Bureau of Print-
ing and Engraving. Colored clerks who have
been reluctant to submit have been ad-
monished sharply, and a state of alarm has
spread among the colored employees of all
executive departments. The fear that they
may lose their positions has led some of those
segregated to seek favor from the administra-
tion by declaring that they are pleased with
334
THE CRISIS
the new plan. They dare not protest, but
privately they declare their indignation and
disapproval. Southern opposition has de-
prived colored men of some of the few high
appointive positions that have been occupied
for many years by members of their race.
The post of Register of the Treasury and that
of minister to the ‘black republic’ of Hayti
are the most noteworthy instances.
“Meantime Senators Vardaman, Tillman,
Hoke Smith and other Southern members of
Congress declare their purpose to force race
segregation throughout all branches of the
Federal government. Senator Vardaman
proposes to introduce a series of bills in
December, the ultimate effect of which would
be to expel Negroes from all government
positions. He says the holding of office is
the symbol of sovereignty, and Negroes
must not exercise sovereignty; and then he
quotes Alexander Stephens’ declaration that
slavery was the natural and normal position
of the Negro. Two bills have been intro-
duced in Congress to require separate street
cars for white and colored people in the
District of Columbia. Injustice once started
is bound to spread apace.
“Six months ago a new administration
came into power at Washington. It came
with promise of a ‘New Freedom’ to all our
people, avowing the spirit of Christian
democracy. It came under obligation to
many colored voters, who threw aside past
political allegiance, worked for and voted
for the election of a ticket the head of which
gave this assurance to the colored people:
‘Should I become President of the ‘United
States they may count on me for absolute
fair dealing and for everything by which I
could assist in advancing the interests of
their race in the United States.’ ”
It concludes with these ringing words:
“A wave of racial prejudice is sweeping
over the world—in Canada, in India, in
Africa, in other lands. It leads to hate and
wrong and strife. Shall we make, matters
worse or shall we now take warning ere too
late, and choose the better way, the way of
true democracy, the Christian way? This
government is the Negroes’ as well as ours,
colored Americans are our fellow citizens.
The black man is the brother of the white
man in the sight of God. What, therefore,
is tlie Christian white man’s duty in a time
like this ?
“Protest against the wrong; demand
justice; keep on demanding it until we win.”
A correspondent writes to the Chicago
Evening Post and says among other things:
“Admitting that the prejudices of the white
race against the black race is unkind, per-
haps unjust in many of its results, it exists,
and cannot be removed by forcing them into
relations of intimacy which are offensive,
intensely offensive in many instances, to the
white race.
“There may be white native-born Ameri-
cans, even persons of colonial descent, who
believe that the Negro should be treated pre-
cisely as a white ‘person of equal mental
and moral attributes, and received on an
equal footing in business and social life. I
have never known such a person, and if I
should meet one who professed that degree
of liberality I should consider that he was
self-deceived or something worse. What call
has the Federal government to enforce upon
its employees an association which cannot
but result in the intensification of their exist-
ing race prejudices? Especially when the
only other result attained is to gratify the
natural propensity of the Negro to force
himself where he is not wanted?”
To this the Post replies:
“For white people to ‘get along with’
colored people on a democratic basis as
fellow citizens, or even as fellow employees,
let us say, instead of as .‘superiors’ and
‘inferiors,’ requires breadth and intelligence,
sympathy and insight. Enough white people
have done it to prove that it can be done,
even though our correspondent seems never
to have met anyone equal to the task. Our
own observations lead us to think that the
difficulties are in certain minds absurdly
exaggerated.
“But it would be hard to exaggerate the
difficulties which will ultimately confront
us when we have followed the policy of
segregation to its logical conclusion and have
undertaken to force 10,000,000 of colored—
and near-colored—people into a rigid
economic and social caste. There are some
who can contemplate comfortably the spec-
tacle of the suffering which that will inflict
upon the colored race, but it would prove
utterly intolerable to millions of white people
as it must prove to the colored people them-
selves. We are a century too late for such
medieval solution. We aren’t, as the say-
ing is, ‘cut out for it.’ And while the
democratic solution is slow and difficult and
possibly even painful at times, it is as solid
as the hills in its foundations.”
OPINION
335
BALTIMORE.
Although the full text of the
decision of the Court of
Appeals has hot been handed down at this
writing, the Baltimore city council is already
at work on a new segregation ordinance, and
the courts have granted an injunction against
the Morgan College, a colored institution,
which is trying to get out of the crowded
city quarters. Charles J. Bonaparte says in
the Baltimore Evening Sun in regard to the
difficulties of framing a legal ordinance:
“These difficulties arise very largely from
the fact that the Fourteenth Amendment pre-
vents these enactments from saying plainly
what their authors mean, and obliges the lat-
ter to profess a purpose which they do not
really entertain. What they wish is to
keep Negroes out of desirable neighborhoods;
if they could provide by law that, within the
city limits, no Negro should live on a high-
way more than twenty feet wide or own or
rent a house of more than twelve feet front,
this would perfectly satisfy them, and
they would pay no more heed to the question
whether white people also lived on these
alleys, as the Negroes’ neighbors, than has
ever been paid by our municipal govern-
ment since we had such a government in
Baltimore. Unfortunately for their chari-
table and enlightened ends, they can’t now
banish by law the ‘niggers’ to the slums, as
they might have done fifty years ago; and
this lamentable condition of affairs compels
them to affect a ridiculously insincere solici-
tude lest the same proximity to black people
which the white people of Baltimore have
endured without apparent injury for more
than a century should suddenly become dis-
astrous to the morals and manners of the
very same white people. Now it is well
settled that the Fourteenth Amendment does
not forbid the consideration of race dif-
ferences in legislation relating to such
subjects as intermarriage, coeducation or
even conveyance by common carriers, pro-
vided such legislation is not discriminatory
against any one of the races affected by it;
and the authors of our ‘segregation’ ordi-
nances have tried to bring them within the
class of laws thus upheld by imposing the
same, or strictly analogous, prohibitions as to
residence upon white men which they do
upon Negroes. Under the first of Mr.
Dashiell’s ordinances, if the writer’s memory
serves him aright, a white woman was
actually prosecuted for coming back to live
in her own house after a colored tenant had
given it up!
‘.‘The writer understands the Court of
Appeals to have intimated that the city has
power, under its charter, to prohibit persons
of different races from living within the
same designated areas, if (and this is a
rather large ‘if’) it can manage to do this
without infringing the vested rights of
property owners within the several areas thus
designated, these vested rights of property
being protected by other language in the
Fourteenth Amendment and by our State
constitution as well. Doubtless it will not
prove impossible for competent counsel to
prepare an enactment which may run the
gantlet of this test; but to do this will .not
be child’s play and is rendered the more
difficult by the well-established rule of law
which obliges the courts to pass on the
reasonableness of a municipality’s exercise
of its charter powers. The writer has no
apologies to make to anybody for describing
the whole business as petty, impolitic,
medieval in conception, injurious to the
best interests of the city, worthy, perhaps,
of Russia, certainly of Governor Blease and
Senator Vardaman and the communities
which admire and trust those great men, but
unworthy of Maryland and especially of
Baltimore; if anybody from the South,
North, East or West doesn’t like this descrip-
tion, he is at perfect liberty to dislike it.”
A white real-estate owner adds this letter
in the Baltimore Evening Sun:
“Sir: I herewith beg to deny that Negroes
are moving into ‘the most desirable sections
or our fair city.’ The assertion is pure rot!
Facts are the things that teach! The record
office records the fact that the writer is the
owner of property on Druid Hill Avenue,
McCulloh Street, Madison Avenue, Linden
Avenue, Bolton Street, Park Avenue, Mary-
land Avenue and intermediate points. I
have lived in the said section for at least
fifty years; this is another fact. It is also a
fact that if I had not been acquainted with
what appreciated and depreciated property
in that time I would have been in Bayview
at the present time.
“Did any one of your segregationists ever
hear what the Pennsylvania Railroad did to
Maryland Avenue? He doesn’t have to take
my word for it. All he has to do is to look and
see. The soot and the smoke and the cinders
are still there. The rip and the roar and
the jar of traffic are yet heard in the land.
336
THE CRISIS
Formerly it was the custom to drive cattle,
steers, sheep and hogs to the depots in the
vicinity. This odor, mixed with ‘a savory
odor of Standard Oil/ about emptied the
street.
“And yet another fact appears, viz.: Every
good Baltimorean formerly stored his filth
in a well in his back yard. This custom like-
wise generated an odor which was a jewel in
its way. I afiirm that such circumstances
have and will depreciate the value of any
property in any section. I affirm the Negro
had no more to do with it than I had. I
deny that the Negro has depreciated property
on Maryland Avenue, for the simple reason
that the property was depreciated before the
Negro got there. In fact, the property is
now more valuable than when the whites left,
“A short time ago a ground rent was
offered for sale on the said avenue. The
investor refused to buy on account of the
colored man’s presence. After further in-
spection it was discovered the Negro paid
more rent for the leasehold, and paid it more
promptly, than the former white tenant. The
investor on this showing purchased the
ground rent, the same being recorded in the
name of my unworthy self.
“I defy anyone to dispute these facts. I
have taken Maryland Avenue as in some
degree an example of what happened to the
other streets. In this matter your correspon-
dent has certain views on segregation which
may or may not be expressed later. We may
not- love the colored brother, but it is not
necessary to lie about him.
“William P. Chunn, M. D.
“Baltimore, August 23.”
Another one says:
“It has been my experience not to have
found the small colored population of former
white neighborhoods a direct cause for
property depreciation as much as that of
other nationalities in certain sections of the
city. Take, for example, West Fayette,
Lexington and Lombard Streets, near Fre-
mont Street. There are no colored inhabit-
ants there, and yet what part of the city
has suffered more from property
depreciation ?
“There are many reasons attributed to
changes in neighborhoods, and simply be-
cause the respectable colored people wish to
improve their home conditions by coming
from allejrs out into the open it does not
follow they desire to drive white residents
from their homes. On Druid Hill Avenue,
which is entirely occupied by colored people
now, as far north as North Avenue, property
values are far more substantial than they
were some years ago when the houses were
owned by white people, who cared for and
sought more modern houses elsewhere, and
were only too glad to dispose of their prop-
erties to colored people.”
An echo to this from Yonkers, N. Y., has
brought the following letter to the
Statesman:
“An article in two of our local papers of
yesterday would convey to the mind of the
reading public an existing condition which
is new and surprising to me.
“I have been in Yonkers since the 60’s,
and have always had reason to believe that
the people here looked upon the worthy
Negro with commendation when he had taken
any step that pointed to a betterment of
his condition, and I sincerely hope the real-
estate dealer will not be responsible for the
suggested barbarism as the coat of tar and
feathers proposed to be meted out to future
purchasers of homes in certain of our
Yonkers sections.
“Francis J. Moultrie.”
m
solution “Wanted—Solution to the Race
wanted. Problem. This problem has
bothered us long enough. Must
have solution at once. Lynchings,
assimilation, democracy and other pro-
posals have been tried without success.
Solution must make it clear how the
South can continue to enslave the Negro
without violating the Constitution of the
United States, and how the North can con-
tinue to profess a love for the Negro without
allowing him to enter into active competition.
The solution must show, in short, how the
shrewd American Northerner and Southerner
can continue to get all the advantages from
the importation of an unassiinilable race
without getting any of the disadvantages.
This is not so difficult as it sounds. It is
certainly no more difficult than the tariff or
the currency. Suitable reward to right party.
Address Servitude, Washington, B. T.”—
Life.
“ SOUTHERNERS. ”
E ARE delighted to learn
that Walter H. Page,
former editor of the
World’s Work and now
Ambassador to Great
Britain, is not a
“Southerner.” This point is definitely
settled by the editors of a Southern
magazine published in New York for
the conversion of the heathen.
We had long suspected this. We
have used the term 44Southerner’* in a
restricted sense. It did not refer, for
instance, to. a person born in the South,
otherwise (Heaven forfend!) there
would be some S,000,000 black
44Southerners’’—an unthinkable thing.
44 Southerner” means something special,
limited, definite. It could not refer to
Walter Page. Mr. Page, for instance,
lias worked for the social uplift of the
Negro, he has met Negroes on terms of
equality, treating them, indeed, as gen-
tlemen. He believes in the right of
black men to vote and aspire.
Now all this we learn, on the
authority of Neale’s Monthly, precludes
Mr. Page from being a “Southerner.”
A 4 ‘ Southerner, ’ ’ it seems, must be a
man who has assimilated no new ideas
as to democracy and social classes since
1S63 ; he must be 4 4 haughty/’ intolerant
and snobbish. His ancestors must have
been “aristocrats” and he must have
had a black mammy whom he loved,
and as an evidence of this love he now
and then lynches her grandchildren.
But the 44Southerner” has one charac-
teristic above this: he hates Niggers;
he pursues them vindictively; he
chases a drop of Negro blood like a
sleuth. He makes it his chief business
in life to hound, oppress and insult
black folk, and to tell them personally
as often as he can how utterly he
despises them—except their women,
privately. These he likes. The “South-
erner” is intensely religious and set on
foreign missions. He especially wishes
to convert the heathen in China and
the Congo Valley. He is also a familiar
friend of God and knows more about
the religion of Jesus Christ than any
other Christian.
This is the picture of the 4 4 South-
erner” drawn by Neale’s Monthly and
elaborated by The Crisis.
Is it a true picture of the sixteen or
more millions of whites in the South?
Certainly not. It is a laughable carica-
ture. But—and this is the serious part
—it is a true picture of certain domi-
nant elements in the white South, and
the rest of the white South is willing
to let that type of 4 4 Southerner ” repre-
sent it. Thus they repudiate Walter
Page and accept James K. Vardaman.
THE SIMPLE WAY.
OME ways of life are so
simple. There was, for
instance, a few years
ago, a solution of the
Negro problem so
ridiculously simple that
those who did not receive it as gospel
were hooted if not stoned. The gist
was this:
The Negro must work out his own
salvation.
338
THE CRISIS
The Negro must make himself useful
to his neighbors.
The Negro must not complain.
Duties must be taught Negroes—
never mind their rights.
Negroes must let politics alone.
Money talks—let the Negro get a
$5,000 brick house and his individual
problem is solved.
Etc., etc.
All this the Negro has done. He has
striven to solve his problems unaided.
He is so useful to his neighbors that
the problem of to-morrow will be the
Southern millionaire waxed fat on the
starvation wages of black peons.
The mass of Negroes has been so
ground down and oppressed that they
do not know what complaint is. If
they did, segregation, the “Jim Crow”
car and disfranchisement would dis-
appear to-morrow. We have shivered
in the storm like dumb driven cattle
and forgotten our rights before we
learned them. We have “let politics
alone’’ so effectually that we practically
have no voice in our own government,
and we have accumulated brick houses
so fast that from Boston to Galveston
white nerves are being strained to
drive us out of them.
We are therefore listening to those
eminent and distinguished solvers of
the Negro problem, white and black,
who, with hat in hand, have in the last
twenty years been lulling this nation
to sleep and also feathering their own
nests; we are listening for further
advice and direction along the simple
way.
m
HOWELLS AND BLACK FOLK.
N the composite picture
which William Dean
Howells, as his life work,
has painted of America
he has not hesitated to be
truthful and to include the most signifi-
cant thing in the land—the black man.
With lie and twistings most Americans
seek to ignore the mighty and portentous
shadow of ten growing millions, or, if it
insists on darkening the landscape, to
label it as joke or crime. But Howells, in
his “Imperative Duty,” faced our
national foolishness and shuffling and
evasion. Here was a white girl engaged
to a white man who discovers herself to
be “black.” The problem looms before
her as tremendous, awful. The world
wavers. She peers beyond the Veil and
shudders and then—tells her story
frankly, marries her man, and goes her
way as thousands of others have done
and are doing.
It was Howells, too, that discovered
Dunbar. We have had a score of artists
and poets in black America, but few
critics dared call them so. Most of them,
therefore, starved; or, like Timrod,
“passed” as white. Howells dared take
Dunbar by the hand and say to the
world, not simply here is a black artist,
but here is an artist who happens to be
black. Not only that, but as an artist
Dunbar had studied black folk and
realized the soul of this most artistic of
all races. <fI said,” wrote Howells,
“that a race which had come to this
effect in any member of it had attained
civilization in him, and I permitted my-
self the imaginative prophecy that the
hostilities and the prejudices which had
so long constrained his race were
destined to vanish in the arts; that these
were to be the final proof that God had
made one blood of all nations of men.”
Finally when, on the centenary of
Lincoln’s birth, a band of earnest men
said, we must finish the work of Negro
emancipation and break the spiritual
bonds that still enslave this people,
William Dean Howells was among the
first to sign the call. From this call came
the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People and
The Crisis magazine.
The National Emancipation Exposition
gg IN NEW YORK CITY, OCTOBER 22-31, 1913 gg
HE pageant of Negro history
as written by W. E. B. Du
Bois and produced by
Charles Burroughs, Master;
Daisy Tapley, Dora Cole
Norman, Marie Stuart
Jackson, Augustus G. Dill
and 350 others, during the exhibition, and
entitled t(The People of Peoples and Their
Gifts to Men.”
Prelude.
The lights of the Court of Freedom blaze.
A trumpet blast is heard and four heralds,
black and of gigantic stature, appear with
silver trumpets and standing at the four
corners of the temple of beauty cry:
"Hear ye, hear ye! Men of all the Ameri-
cas, and listen to the tale of the eldest and
strongest of the races of mankind, whose
faces be black. Hear ye, hear ye, of the
gifts of blacky men to this world, the Iron
Gift and Gift of Faith, the Pain of Humility
and the Sorrow Song of Pain, the Gift of
Freedom and of Laughter, and the undying
Gift of Hope. Men of the world, keep
silence and hear ye this!”
Four banner bearers come forward and
stand along the four walls of the temple. On
their banners is written:
“The First Gift of the Negro to the world,
being the Gift of Iron. This picture shall
tell how, in the deep and beast-bred forests of
Africa, mankind first learned the welding of
iron, and thus defense against the living and
the dead.”
What the banners tell the heralds solemnly
proclaim.
Whereat comes the
First Episode. The Gift of Iron:
The lights grow dim. The roar of beasts
is heard and the crash of the storm. Light-
nings flash. The dark figure of an African
savage hurries across the foreground,
frightened and cowering and dancing.
Another follows defying the lightning and is
struck down; others come until the space is
filled with 100 huddling, crowding savages.
Some brave the storm, some pray their Gods
with incantation and imploring dance.
Mothers shield their children, and husbands
their wives. At last, dimly enhaloed in
mysterious light, the Veiled Woman appears,
commanding in stature and splendid in gar-
ment, her dark face faintly visible, and in her
right hand Fire, and Iron in her left. As
she passes slowly round the Court the
rythmic roll of tomtoms begins. Then music
is heard; anvils ring at the four corners.
The arts flourish, huts arise, beasts are
brought in and there is joy, feasting and
dancing.
A trumpet blast calls silence and the
heralds proclaim
The Second Episode, saying:
“Hear ye, hear ye! All them that come to
know the Truth, and listen to the tale of
the wisest and gentlest of the races of men
whose faces be black. Hear ye, hear ye, of
the Second Gift of black men to this world,
the Gift of Civilization in the dark and
splendid valley of the Nile. Men of the
world, keep silence and hear ye this.” The
banners of the banner bearers change and
read:
“The Second Gift of the Negro to the
world, being the Gift of the Nile. This
picture tells how the meeting of Negro and
Semite in ancient days made the civiliza-
tion of Egypt the first in the world.”
There comes a strain of mighty music, dim
in the distance and drawing nearer. The 100
savages thronged round the whole Court
rise and stand listening. Slowly there come
fifty veiled figures and with them come the
Sphinx, Pyramid, the Obelisk and the empty
' Throne of the Pharaoh drawn by oxen. As
the cavalcade passes, the savages, wondering,
threatening, inquiring, file by it. Suddenly
a black chieftain appears in the entrance,
with the Uraeus in one hand and the winged
Beetle in the other. The Egyptians unveil
and display Negroes and mulattoes clothed
in the splendor of the Egyptian Court. The
savages salaam; all greet him as Ra, the
Negro. He mounts the throne and the caval-
cade, led by posturing dancers and Ra, and
followed by Egyptians and savages, pass in
procession around to the right to the thunder
of music and tomtoms. As they pass, Ra is
crowned as Priest and King. While the
Queen of Sheba and Candace of Ethiopia
join the procession at intervals.
340
THE CRISIS
Slowly all pass out save fifty savages, who
linger examining their gifts. The lights
grow dim as Egyptian culture dies and the
fifty savages compose themselves to sleep. As
they sleep the light returns and the heralds
proclaim
The Third Episode, saying:
<rHear ye, hear ye! All them that come
to see the light and listen to the tale of the
bravest and truest of the races of men, whose
faces be black. Hear ye, hear ye, of the
Third Gift of black men to this world—a
Gift of Faith in Righteousness hoped for
but unknown; men of the world, keep silence
and hear ye this!” The banners change and
read:
“The Third Gift of the Negro to the
world, being a Gift of Faith. This‘episode
tells how the Negro race spread the faith
of Mohammed over half the world and built
a new culture thereon.”
There is a sound of battle. The savages
leap to their feet. Mohammed and fifty fol-
lowers whirl in and rushing to the right beat
the savages back. Fifty Songhay enter and
attack the Mohammedans. Fifty other
Mohammedans enter and attack the Songhay.
Turning, the Songhay bear the last group of
Mohammedans back to the left where they
clash with the savages. Mohammedan
priests strive and exhort among the war-
riors. At each of the four comers of the
temple a priest falls on his face and cries:
“God is God! God is God! There is no God
but God, and Mohammed is his prophet!”
Four more join, others join until gradually
all is changed from battle to the one univer-
sal cry: “God is God! God is God! There
is no God but God, and Mohammed is his
prophet!” In each corner, however, some
Mohammedans hold slaves in shackles,
secretly.
Mansa Musa appears at the entrance with
entourage on horseback, followed by black
Mohammedan priests and scholars. The pro-
cession passes around to the right with music
and dancing, and passes out with Moham-
medans and Songhay, leaving some Moham-
medans and their slaves on the stage.
The herald proclaims
The Fourth Episode, saying:
“Hear ye, hear ye! All them that know
the sorrow of the world. Hear ye, hear ye,
and listen to the tale of the humblest and
the mightiest of the races of men whose faces
be black. Hear ye, hear ye, and learn how
this race did suffer of Pain, of Death and
Slavery and yet of this Humiliation did not
die. Men of the world, keep silence and
hear ye this!” The banners change again
and say:
“The Fourth Gift of the Negro to the
world, being a Gift of Humiliation. This
gift shows how men can bear even the Hell
of Christian slavery and live.”
The Mohammedans force their slaves for-
ward as European traders enter. Other
Negroes, with captives, enter. The Moham-
medans take gold in. barter. The Negroes
refuse gold, but are seduced by beads and
drink. Chains rattle. Christian missionaries
enter, but the slave trade increases. The
wail of the missionary grows fainter and
fainter until all is a scene of carnage and
captivity with whip and chain and only a
frantic priest, staggering beneath a cross and
crowned with bloody thorns, wanders to and
fro in dumb despair.
There is silence. Then a confused moan-
ing. Out of the moaning comes the slave
song, “Nobody Knows the Trouble I’ve
Seen,” and with it and through the chained
and bowed forms of the slaves as they pass
out is done the Dance of Death and Pain.
The stage is cleared of all its folk. There
is a pause, in which comes the Dance of the
Ocean, showing the transplantation of the
Negro race over seas.
Then the heralds proclaim
The Fifth Episode, saying: •
“Hear ye, hear ye! All them that strive
and struggle. Hear ye, hear ye, and listen
to the tale of the stoutest and the sturdiest
of the races of men whose faces be black.
Hear ye, hear ye, and learn how this race
did rise out of slavery and the valley of the
shadow of death. Men of the world, keep
silence and hear ye this!” The banners
change again and read:
“The Fifth Gift of the Negro to the world,
being a Gift of Struggle Toward Freedom.
This picture tells of Alonzo, the Negro pilot
of Columbus, of Stephen Dorantes who dis-
covered New Mexico, of the brave Maroons
and valiant Haytians, of Crispus Attucks,
George Lisle and Nat Turner.”
Twenty-five Indians enter, circling the
Court right and left, stealthily and watch-
fully. As they sense the coming of the
whites, they gather one side of the temple,
watching.
NATIONAL EMANCIPATION EXPOSITION
341
Alonzo, the Negro, enters and after him
Columbus and Spaniards, in mail, and one
monk. They halt the other side of the temple
and look about searchingly, pointing at the
Indians. Slaves follow. One of the slaves,
Stephen Dorantes, and the monk seek the
Indians. The monk is killed and Stephen
returns, circling the Court, tells his tale and
dies. The Spaniards march on the Indians.
Their slaves—the Maroons—revolt and march
to the left and meet the Indians on the oppo-
site side. The French, some of the mulattoes
ajid Negroes, enter with more slaves. They
march after the Spanish. Their slaves,
.helped by mulattoes and Toussaint, revolt
and start back. The French follow the
Spaniards, but the returning Haytians meet
oncoming British. The Haytians fight their
way'through and take their place next to the
Maroons. Still more slaves and white Ameri-
cans follow the British. The British and
Americans dispute. Attucks leads the
Americans and the British are put to flight.
Spanish, French and British, separated by
dancing Indians, file around the Court and
out, while Maroons, Haytians and slaves file
around in the opposite direction and meet
the Americans. As they pass the French,
by guile induce Toussaint to go with them.
There is a period of hesitation. Some slaves
are freed, some Haytians resist aggression.
George Lisle, a freed Negro, preaches the
true religion as the masters listen. Peace
ensues and the slaves sing at their tasks.
Suddenly Kang Cotton arrives, followed by
Greed, Vice, Luxury and Cruelty. The slave-
holders are seduced. The old whips and
chains appear. Nat Turner rebels and is
killed. The slaves drop into despair and work
silently and sullenly. The faint roll of tom-
toms is heard.
The heralds proclaim
The Sixth Episode, saying:
“Hear ye, hear ye! Citizens of New York,
and learn of the deeds of eldest and
strongest of the races of men whose faces
be black. Hear ye, hear ye, of the Sixth
and Greatest Gift of black men to the world,
the Gift of Freedom for the workers. Men
of New York, keep silence and hear ye this.”
The banners change and say:
“The sixth and last episode, showing how
the freedom of black slaves meant freedom
for the world. In this episode shall be seen
the work of Garrison and John Brown; of
Abrahsfm Lincoln and Frederick Douglass,
the marching of black soldiers to war and
the hope that lies in little children.”
The slaves work more and more dejectedly
and drivers force them. Slave music comes.
The tomtoms grow louder. The Veiled
Woman appears with fire and iron. The
slaves arise and begin to escape, passing
through each other to and fro, confusedly.
Benezet, Walker and Garrison enter, scatter-
ing their writings, and pass slowly to the
right, threatened by slave drivers. John
Brown enters, gesticulating. A knot of
Negroes follow him. The planters seize him
and erect a gallows, but the slaves seize his
body and begin singing “John Brown’s
Body.”
Frederick Douglass enters and passes to
the right. Sojourner Truth enters and passes
to the left. Sojourner Truth cries:
“Frederick, is God dead?” Voices take up
the cry, repeating:	“Frederick, is God
dead?” Douglass answers: “No, and there-
fore slavery must end in blood.” The heralds
repeat: “Slavery must end in blood.”
The roll of drums is heard and the
soldiers enter. First, a company in blue with
Colonel Shaw on horseback.
A single voice sings “0 Freedom.” A
soprano chorus takes it up.
The Boy Scouts march in.
Full brasses take up “O Freedom.”
Little children enter, and among them
symbolic figures of the Laborer, the Artisan,
the Servant of Men, the Merchant, the In-
ventor, the Musician, the Actor, the Teacher,
Law, Medicine and Ministry, the All-Mother,
formerly the Veiled Woman, now unveiled in
her chariot with her dancing brood, and the
bust of Lincoln at her side.
With burst of music and blast of trumpets,
the pageant ends and the heralds sing:
“Hear ye, hear ye, men of all the Americas,
ye who have listened to the tale of the eldest
and strongest of the races of mankind, whose
faces be black. Hear ye, hear ye, and forget
not the -gift of black men to this world—
the Iron Gift and Gift of Faith, the Pain of
Humility and Sorrow Song of Pain, the Gift
of Freedom and Laughter and the undying
Gift of Hope. Men of America, break
silence, for the play is done.”
Then shall the banners announce:
“The play is done!”
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION POR THE ADVANCEMENT
OF COLORED PEOPLE

BRANCHES.
Baltimore.
/~\ N October 2d Baltimore held a mass
^ meeting protesting against segrega-
tion. Mr. Villard and Miss Ovington
made addresses. Mr. McGuinn, one of
the attorneys for the branch, presided.
Baltimore has its own aggravating prob-
lems. A new segregation ordinance has just
been passed by the city council, modeled so as
to cover the defects in the old ordinance which
was recently declared invalid by the Supreme
Court of the State. About the time this last
ordinance was passed white people moved
out of some miserable houses in a segre-
gated area and colored people began to move
in. The houses were at once bombarded by
white toughs and several people were injured.
One white man, getting into a controversy
with his colored chauffeur in regard to the
matter, shot and instantly killed him.
The murderer has been exonerated. The
branch is working on the case and the
association is co-operating. It is the inten-
tion of the association to further co-operate
with the branch in fighting the new segrega-
tion ordinance as soon as a test case can be
brought.
Tacoma.
“This little branch has been doing a land-
office business. Why did you not tell us you
needed us sooner?” We quote from our
Tacoma correspondent because we always
feel so cheered up by a letter from this far
Western outpost that we want their infec-
tious spirit to get abroad. As soon as Tacoma
received the circular letters from national
headquarters, the branch immediately cor-
responded with Seattle, Spokane, Portland,
Denver and Ogden, and succeeded in arrang-
ing meetings of protest in both Ogden and
Seattle. To the latter meeting Tacoma sent
four delegates.
Tacoma held its mass meeting of protest
in the First Baptist Church. Mayor Seymour
presided. There were both white and colored
speakers and several impromptu speeches by
members of the G. A. R. Resolutions were
drawn up, signed by 500 men and women of
both races, and sent to the President. The
local press was most enthusiastic in its
notices of the meeting, only one paper—the
Post-Intelligencer, of Seattle—refusing to
report it.
Topeka.
The Topeka branch held a meeting to
protest against segregation on September
26. There was a large attendance. Mr.
Arthur Capper, president of the branch,
presided. There were several prominent
speakers of both races, including Mr. James
H. Guy and Mr. Patrick Coney, attorneys;
the Hon. Thomas McNeal, Prof. N. Sawyer
and the Rev. F. L. Loveland, pastor of the
First M. E. Church. Resolutions of protest
were drawn up, signed by 400 people, for-
warded to the President, and copies were
also sent to Kansas representatives in
Congress. The branch is carrying on an
extensive campaign to increase its member-
ship and expects to hold another mass
meeting this month.
Other branches which are arranging pro-
test meetings are Detroit, California and
Boston.
Washington.
The association has been most fortunate
in securing as president of the Washington
branch Mr. Archibald H. Grimke, who is too
well known to our readers to need more than
THE N. A. A. C. P.
343
mention. All the other officers of the former
organization have been reappointed. They
will serve until January, when the branch will
hold its own election in accordance with the
resolution published under Association Notes
in the last number of The Crisis. The
branch begins its new year with enthusiasm.
Many new members and renewals have been
received. On October 27 a mass meeting
was held to protest against segregation.
Mr. Villard and Dr. John Haynes Holmes,
of New York, were the speakers.
m
SEGREGATION IN GOVERNMENT
DEPARTMENTS.
A LARGE number of letters were
received from our members in all
parts of the country in response to the cir-
cular sent out by the association protesting
against the segregation of colored employees
in the government departments. Several
members have undertaken to write articles
for publication and the office has received a
number of inquiries from members of Con-
gress asking for the facts. Several Senators
have interested themselves. Senator Clapp
has assured the association that he intends to
urge the consideration of his resolution which
was mentioned in the last number of The
Crisis.
The association sent an investigator to
Washington. Space forbids our giving full
details. It was ascertained that segregation
of colored employees exists and is increasing
in the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, in
the Post Office Department and in the office
of the Auditor for the Post Office, which is
a part of the Treasury Department.. As yet,
segregation has not been introduced in the
Treasury building) where there are 270
colored employees scattered throughout the
corridors and offices with white clerks,
although it seems to be generally understood
that ultimately colored clerks are to be
segregated i,n the registry division of this
building. A Southerner in charge of one of
the offices in the Treasury building, mistak-
ing the investigator for a sympathizer, con-
fidingly remarked that they wanted to
inaugurate segregation everywhere in the
Treasury Department, but were handicapped
because “they did not know how to go about
it, it being most difficult to determine upon
the best method.” Before he could give more
valuable information he was warned by the
guide.
No official orders have been issued and no
signs posted except in regard to lavatories.
This order is still in force in at least three
departments. The signs in the Treasury
Department have been taken ’down. They
are still posted in the Bureau of Engraving
and Printing. There seems to be a willing-
ness on the part of officials to discuss this
order, possibly because they realize it would
be a waste of ammunition for the colored
people or their friends to make an issue of
it just now. The attention of the investi-
gator was repeatedly called to the fact that
the colored people had resented this order
bitterly, while not a single protest had been
received against segregation in work. The
reasons are almost too obvious for comment:
(1) The colored people resent a personal
affront. (2) They canpot protest against
segregation in work when no orders have
been issued in regard to it. Should they
complain they would at once be asked to
cite a discriminating order, and failing that
would probably be told, as they have been,
that the changes made had been necessitated
by the exigencies of the work, color having
had nothing to do with it. They
would be unable to prove their case and
might jeopardize their positions by
“insubordination.”
The subtle way in which segregation is
slowly being effected without official orders
is worthy of attention. Such delicate co-
ordination on the part of officials is
impressive. Generally the excuse is a
readjustment in work to increase efficiency.
In the rearrangement of desks, which always
seems to be necessary, clerks are moved from
one room to another, and when the process
is completed the colored clerks always find
themselves, in some mysterious way, together.
To illustrate: Recently the colored clerks
in the dead letter division of the Post Office
Department were segregated back of a row
of lockers in one corner of the room. The
guide said that it became necessary to move
these lockers in order to improve ventila-
tion. He was unable, however, to explain
how all the clerks segregated back of them
happened to be colored.
Even more dangerous to the colored people
than this segregation is the skilful way in
which its justification is being spread.
Friends of the colored people hear with com-
parative indifference the statement that “We
are determined to reduce these people to
menial and subordinate positions,” for such
344
THE CRISIS
frankness cannot fail to arouse resentment in
favor of the oppressed, but the sinister
equivalent of this blunt declaration
frequently heard in Washington—“We can-
not have colored men working in the same
room with white women or colored men in
charge of the departments employing white
women”—is menacing and much more
difficult to combat. Not only does this
arouse latent prejudice, but it tends to create
it where it does not now exist.
One white woman who has had a long
experience in office work inquired why the
government did not segregate its women
employees instead of its colored clerks.
Though an ardent advocate of woman's
rights, she fails to see why the entry of a
few women into the government service
should .cause its entire reorganization because,
as she tritely remarked, any clerk, white or
colored, who makes himself offensive to his
fellow clerks will soon find himself discharged.
Moreover, with the resignation of Mr.
Napier, Registrar of the Treasury, there will
be no colored men in positions of authority,
the heads of all the departments being white,
except Mr. Napier's successor, who is an
Indian.
Although segregation in government de-
partments has just begun, its effects are
already startlingly in evidence. Those
segregated are regarded as a people set
apart. Instead of allaying race prejudice,
as some of its advocates would have us
believe, the government, by recognition, has
emphasized it. In Washington, as usual,
history repeats itself in giving to those
segregated what no one else wants. For
example, in the Bureau of Engraving and
Printing the lunchroom assigned to colored
women is unsanitary. In the office of the
Auditor for the Post Office a group of
colored women who work on what is known
as the “key punch” were taken from light
and airy rooms and segregated in an un-
pleasant alcove. In the Dead Letter Office,
where the colored clerks have been segre-
gated by a row of lockers, the part of the
room chosen is the least desirable.
If the policy continues competition in
work, of course, will be eliminated. Colored
clerks will be restricted to employment in
the few offices designated for them. A
prominent social worker in Washington,
referring to the matter, said that the white
people did not really object to working with
the colored people, but were using this old
argument of race prejudice as an excuse to
get their positions. If the colored people
protest against segregation, she said, it will
be probably only a question of time before
the Civil Service Act is annulled and
another passed making it possible to de-
prive them of all government positions.
That the basis of the whole segregation
idea is caste and not race is indicated by
the fact that the attention of the investi-
gator was repeatedly called to the absence
of segregation in the cleaning forces. In
two of the government buildings the attend-
ant in charge said it would be impossible
to segregate without interfering with the
efficiency of the work and, moreover, he had
had no complaints from the white “scrub
ladies.”
Another difficulty in carrying out segre-
gation by color consistently unexpectedly
arose, to the great embarrassment of the
clerk who was acting as guide in the
Treasury Department. Entering one of the
rooms where colored clerks were employed,
he remarked: “There are two in here, that
man in the far corner of the room and”—
turning to a white man at the door—“you are
the other colored clerk in here, aren't you?”
The reply cannot be published, but it is sig-
nificant that the man making it was con-
siderably darker than some of the colored
clerks who will have to be segregated if the
present policy is perfected.
It is impossible to prophesy the outcome.
The association is working hard and intends
to keep up its fight. Every member is urged
to interest his friends and to write to his
representatives in Congress if he has not
already done so.
The rumor was abroad in Washington
that it was not likely that any further effort
would be made to segregate the colored
people until after the election for mayor
in New York, as Mr. Mitchell, the Fusion
candidate for mayor, is also the candidate
favored by the present administration.
Colored men vote in New York City 1
m
LEGAL.
ALL members of the association should
be interested in the case of Frank
Guinn and J. J. Beal vs. the United States,
which is set for hearing before the Supreme
Court on October 14.
This “grandfather” case is one between
the United States on the one hand and
THE MUSLIM PRIEST AND THE HEATHEN
345
certain registrars of voters on the other,
arising from an attempt on the part of the
government to punish the defendants for
complying with the provisions of the
Oklahoma amendment. The government is
therefore a party to the case and is repre-
sented by its Solicitor-General. The latter,
in reply to an inquiry from the association,
advised us that we might be permitted to
file a brief. This has been prepared by
Mr. Storey, our president, and has been
filed. It will be presented by Jackson
Ralston, Esq., an eminent attorney of
Washington, D. C.
William Harrison, Esq., a colored at-
torney of Oklahoma City, who was active in
the case mentioned above, also appears in the
case of McCabe, et al, vs. Atchison, Topeka
and Santa Fe Railroad. This is a “Jim
Crow” case and is to come before the
Supreme Court this term. Mr. Harrison
asked the co-operation of the association and
invited Mr. Storey to appear with him as
counsel to argue the case. Mr. Storey has
consented and the association sent $180 to
the clerk of the Supreme Court to cover the
expenses of printing a record of the case.
The other “Jim Crow” case, that of the
Alabama & Vicksburg Railway Company
vs. Pearl Morris, which is in the hands of
the association, will not be reached for some
time.

The MUSLIM PRIEST AND THE HEATHEN
i ^ (An African Parable)	Adapted by A. O. Stafford gg
[NOTE—This parable has been adapted for
the readers of The Crisis from the Rev.
S. W. Koelle's * * African Native Litera-
ture. ” The locale is in the British Pro-
tectorate of Nigeria, West Central Africa, a
vast territory with a population of several
million Negroes, where for centuries the
Mohammedan faith has been the prevailing
religious belief. The Muslim priest of the
parable, his heathen friend and the chief
magistrate of the African town of Kuka were
Negroes. The late Dr. Edward W. Blyden, the
eminent Negro scholar, states that the Azan
or “call to prayer,'' which to this day sum-
mons throughout the Eastern world millions
of Mohammedans to their devotions, was first
uttered by a Negro—Bilal by name—whom
Mohammed, in obedience to a dream, ap-
pointed the first muezzin or crier.—A. O. S.]
HfcRE was once a great
priest who possessed all
books the wisdom of which
he had mastered. His only
friend, whom he loved pas-
sionately, was a heathen to
whose house he went daily
for converse. These visits pleased the
heathen exceedingly because he knew that
he never fasted, never prayed, never killed
the Easter lamb, but did many things for-
bidden in the Koran. Yet he and the priest
lived in friendship.
One day while at the heathen’s house the
priest said: “My friend, in a week I shall
make my pilgrimage to Mecca.”
“Father priest, if thou goest to Mecca
takest me with thee?” asked the heathen
immediately.
“Thou art a heathen,” replied the priest.
“Thou never fastest, never prayest and wilt
thou goest to Mecca with me? I cannot take
thee.”
“Let me follow thee to Mecca,” begged
the heathen; “when you have come to Mecca
and'God gives thee a good place, I by thy
blessing may also obtain one.”
“This cannot be,” answered the priest as
he arose to go.
At the end of a week the priest was ready
for the journey, taking with him dried cow's
meat and flour, a case with books, a cala-
bash for drinking water and another one
to be used for washing his face and hands
before prayer. When the heathen saw his
friend depart for Mecca he also prepared
for the journey, taking dried hog’s meat—
forbidden by the Koran—a calabash for
water and a staff. By walking rapidly he
overtook, in a few days, the priest on his
journey through the desert. When the
priest saw his heathen friend he asked: “How
couldst thou follow me after I had said that
I could not take thee to Mecca?”
The heathen’s spirit was crushed, but he
answered, looking upon his friend with sor-
rowful eyes: “Go thou to Mecca alone, but I
shall follow thee from afar.”
346
THE CRISIS
In time the priest came to Mecca, fol-
lowed in a short while by the heathen.
The morning after their arrival was
Friday. All of the great men had prepared
to go to the mosque, when the voice of the
crier was heard chanting the morning call to
prayer:
“God is most great! I testify there is no
God but God! I testify that Mohammed is
the Apostle of God! Come to prayer!
Come to salvation! God is most great!
There is no God but Godl Prayer is bet-
ter than sleep. Prayer is better than sleep.”
As the call was chanted all listened with
reverence, the passers in the street stood
still, those at work ceased from their labors
and those who had not arisen sat up in their
beds.
When the call was finished all the great
men of Mecca entered the mosque, while the
priest and the heathen stood at the entrance.
Seeing the priest, the crier asked of him:
“Whence comest thou?”
The priest replied: “From Kuka, in the
Bornu country of Africa.”
Whereupon said the crier: “1'hou hast a
friend who after many weary weeks in the
desert followed thee hither, but whose
coming thou dost not like. Ere thou
calledst him a friend, thou kgewest that he
never fasted, never prayed, never killed the
Easter lamb and that his parents, grand-
parents and great-grandparents were
heathens.
“When thy friend hoped, on his following
thee hither, to obtain Heaven by thy blessing
thou didst not like his coming. If one seeks
and does good our Lord will interpret it
to him for good. Not he is a heathen who
eats hog's meat or monkey meat, but he who
quarrels with his neighbor and then keeps
him in his heart maliciously and who always
remembers it when he sees him with whom
he had a quarrel. Therefore I will not let
thee enter the mosque, but the man whom
thou callest a heathen may enter.”
The heathen was then called and told to
enter, while the priest was left standing on
the outside. All of the great men of Mecca,
the heathen among them, then prayed in the
mosque.
When the prayer hour was over the
heathen was called, given a beautiful house
in which to live, while to the priest was
assigned a small one.
At the end of a month, filled with prayer
and reverence, when the heathen expressed
a desire to return to the Bornu country, the
chief magistrate of Mecca gave him a silver
basin, a scarlet cap, a silver staff, a cloak,
a beautiful upper garment, food to eat on
the journey and a golden plate for bis
food. To the priest was given a little food,
a water pan, a copper basin and an iron
staff.
The priest and the heathen left Mecca to-
gether and for over two months they con-
tinued their return journey before reaching
Kuka.
One morning, a few weeks later, the priest
was taken with fever, and the heathen also,
between morning and noon. Early the fol-
lowing morning after the priest had said his
prayer he died and before noon the heathen
also passed away.
Then some people of the town came and
washed their bodies, wrapped them in rough
mats and carried them to the graveyard.
Then they took spades, measured the ground
and began to dig the graves.
The grave for the heathen was not hard
to dig, the ground having no stones, but
was of sand; hence it was soon finished.
When the grave for the priest was begun a
strange thing happened. After the people
had dug one foot they met with rocks. They
left and began to dig in another place; again
they met with stones; then leaving that place
they began once more and still again they
met with stones. Growing weary of their
task, the body of the heathen was placed in
the sandy grave and completely covered with
sand, but the body of the priest was placed
about a foot deep in the grave of stone,
which left part of it exposed above the
surface.
Then the chief magistrate of the town said
to all the people who had come to the
burial:
“The priest did not want to take the
heathen with him to Mecca, but the heathen
went, followed the great men of Mecca to
the mosque, entered there and prayed and
our Lord accompanied him. The priest who
relied on being a priest did not obtain ad-
mission to the mosque.
“In the beginning our Lord created all;
the black, the white, the red, the brown and
the yellow, the small and the tall. Our Lord
did not create anyone saying: ‘This is a
heathen and this is a believer/ but he created
all alike; with our Lord there is neither
slave nor free man, priest nor heathen, but
THE FREEDOM OF THE FREE
347
everyone is free and everyone has a heart.
If a man, whether priest or heathen, has a
good heart he will obtain Heaven. As for
reading, thou mayest have read all the books
of the world, but if thine heart is bad thou
shalt not obtain Heaven.
“Therefore our Lord who knew the hearts
of these dead men made the priest out for
the fire and the heathen for Heaven.”
The people then departed, thinking of this
friendship, of the pilgrimage to Mecca, of
the words of the crier, of the prayer in the
mosque, of the long return journey through
the desert, of the sudden deaths of the priest
and the heathen, of the strange happening in
the cemetery and finally of the words of the
chief magistrate.
Thus ended the story of the priest and his
heathen friend of the town of Kuka in the
Bornu country of Africa.
THE FREEDOM OF THE FREE
( Emancipation Exposition Poem)
By Benjamin Griffith B raw ley
	E
	>
	> r

T17HEN the people of Jehovah to the
promised land would go,
They were shown a valiant leader for the
conflict with the foe;
But they wandered many weary years and
faced the raging sea,
Ere their children won the harvest of the
Freedom of the Free.
When the black men of the wilderness were
wanted of the Lord,
From America to Europe flashed the word
with one accord;
And the Christian nations hankered for the
glitter of the gain,
While the screaming of the eagle dulled the
clanking of the chain.
But the captive on the slaver's deck beneath
the lightning's flash—
Unto him were only scourging and the sting-
ing of the lash;
But such things as these must be, they say,
and such the pruning be,
Ere our children win the harvest of the
Freedom of the Free.
Far across the deep Atlantic speeds the ves-
sel on its way,
And the nights are wild with weeping, and
the days with tempests gray,
Till at length within the glory of the dawn
the shore appears,
And the slave takes up the burden and the
battle of the years.
In the fury of the auction runs the clamor
on and on:
“Going! Going! Who bids higher? Going!
Going! Going! Gone!”
And the mocking bird is singing, and the
lilies dance in glee,
And the slave alone is sighing for the
Freedom of the Free.
Now the wide plantation shimmers in the
freshness of the morn,
And the dusky workers scatter through the
cotton and the corn,
With the problems of the ages in the yearn-
ing of their eyes,
While the slave whip sings forever under-
neath the azure skies.
In the silence of the night and from the
weird assembled throng
Comes the beauty and the wailing of the
dirge and Sorrow Song:
“I've been listenin' all the night long for to
hear some sinner pray;
I've been waitin' all the night long for the
breakin' of the day.”
Till at length from Maine to Mexico peals
forth the trumpet blast,
And a wild expectant nation at the fury
stands aghast;
While the young men in their glory feel the
fever of the fight,
And the blood drops of the firstborn stain
the doorposts in the night.
In the crimson of the carnage, in the deluge
of the flame,
Come the black men to the trenches for the
honor and the fame;
And they sell their hearts' blood dearly for
humanity's decree,
That their sons should have the promise of
the Freedom of the Free.
348
THE CRISIS
Now a nation’s second birthday blossoms
from the gloom of night,
And a people stands bewildered at the dawn-
ing of the light;
But the untried hands are willing, and the
hearts are ever true
To the call of home and country and the
faith the fathers knew.
But the tempter whispers ever with monoto-
nous refrain,
That the struggle and the striving and the
faith are all in vain;
But from woodland wold and mountain peak
eternal years reply:
“Better live to fight like brave men than
like coward slaves to die.”
Let us heed no tale of Anak or Philistine in
the land;
Let us hear the word from Sinai and
Jehovah’s high command;
Worship not the Golden Calf nor unto Baal
bend the knee,
That our sons may rise triumphant in the
Freedom of the Free.
LETTER BOX
ADVANCEMENT AND LYNCHING.
T DESIRE herewith to express my ap-
^ proval of The Crisis for its frankness
and truthfulness concerning the outrages,
indignities and injuries inflicted on the Negro
by the white races and especially by the
American white man. The Crisis is full of
information concerning the advancement of
the Negro along all walks of life; it puts the
Negro in touch with the general advance-
ment and uplift of his race and affords him
a source of information to be acquired no-
where else.
Respectfully yours,
Luther L. Newman,
Harrisburg, Pa.
m
Being a monthly reader of The Crisis, I
would say that if this magazine would drop
so much talk about the lynching of Negroes it
would be a great credit to The Crisis. I
don’t see where The Crisis is stopping the
lynching at all. Take up something else
concerning the Negro race and let the lynch-
ing question go for a while.
From yours truly,
J. H. T.,
Philadelphia, Pa.
m
PROM A NORTHERN WHITE WOMAN.
Mrs. Edward L. Buckley’s subscription to
The Crisis expires December, 1913. Will
you kindly discontinue sending it after this
date? To my understanding its influence is
inflammatory and in that way far from
beneficial to the race.
FROM A SOUTHERN WHITE MAN.
I inclose check for $1 to cover my sub-
scription to The Crisis. I appreciate the
opportunity it affords for clear and coherent
presentation of the educated colored man’s
point of view as to the problems of race
adjustment.
FROM A COLORED TEACHER.
Just yesterday I was discussing your work
and position in relation to your race with a
Southern white woman, and during our con-
versation she claimed to have noticed that
you seldom, if ever, bring out examples of
the finer traits of her race in their treatment
of us.. I cited to her instances where you had
not been guilty of such, but she declared that
several times when one of her race had been
instrumental in dispersing a mob no mention
has been made of it in your magazine.
H. S. Dunbar,
Paine College, Augusta, Ga.
m
I find The Crisis mighty interesting read-
ing, though sometimes depressing, as the
truth must always be in certain aspects.
Charles W. Chesnutt,
Cleveland, 0.
m
I am always intensely moved by reading
The Crisis. Some of the sad things keep
me awake at night, but on the whole there
is much to encourage. I know no difference
in races or lands. If God’s principles are
worth anything they obliterate trifles and
stand only for character.
Flora E. Avery,
Galesburg, III.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
349
SOUVENIR PROGRAMS
OF THE	-- ■ ■■
Emancipation Proclamation Exposition
12th Regiment Armory, New York City, October 22 to 31, 1913
Biographical sketches of prominent Negro men and women.
Issue limited to 50,000 copies.
THIS PROGRAM WILL BE VALUABLE
1.	To the individual holder: It will be a constant reminder of
the achievements of the race.
2.	To the advertiser: It will reach a select group of discrimi-
nating readers.
Orders May Be Sent Now	Price oi Program 25 Cents
■■ ■■■	ADDRESS:	=	—	■ —
ROBERT N. WOOD, Chairman
2217 Seventh Avenue	New York City
SPECIAL OFFER
A year’s subscription will be
given free to anyone sending in
at one time five paid-up yearly
subscriptions to The Crisis.
This offer holds good until mid-
night, December 31, 1913.
THE CRISIS
One Dollar a Year
26 Vesey Street, New York City
•FREE SUIT
SmFree Overcoat
TpS Free Outfit and
W $602° a WEEK
No matter what line of business you
are in—what kind of a job you hold—
what other line you are handling—or
how much money you are making you
simply can’t afford to pass up this
amazingly sensational and wonderfully
liberal offer. No other tailoring concern
in the world is in a position or can af-
ford to duplicate this offer. We put
you in business on our capital—make
you a swell suit and overcoat FREE—
make it so easy for you to succeed that
ivt help earning $60 a week and more.
Outfits Cost Us $76,000
Listen! This is the most gorgeously stupendous Agent's
Outfit ever conceived and executed by the skill of man!
Cost us $76.000—yet it costs you only 1 cent for a postal to
get one. Our famous Book of Gold, Masterpiece Edition
shows 96 fashions. 220 samples—all different—all distinct-
ive. Complete outfit—biggest and most magnificent ever
produced—everything you need FREE and beside you get
Your Swell Suit snd Overcoat Free
you simply
Made to your own measure from style and fabric select-
ed by you. Makes you the swellest dressed man in town.
Everybody wants up-to-date clothes like yours, and orders
pour in to you. We prepay all express charges. You
take no risk. $5,000 guarantee bond behind every garment
—money back if not perfectly satisfactory. No money-
no experience necessary* Snappy selling helps and
valuable presents for your customers—everything FREE
and 6ent at once. Write today—a postal will do.
Great Central Tailoring Co. Dept. 756 Chicago, 11L
Mention The Crisis.
350
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
OUR CHRISTMAS CARD
(EfjnatmaB
(fertinga of
‘Ike CRISIS
which will come to you
monthly during the new
year as a gift from
This card. beautifully printed In three colors on cards with gilded and beveled edge, together	THE CRISIS
with envelopes, sent free In any quantity, for the asking. What better Christmas present than 26 Vesey St.. New York
SANTIAGO GEMS C. 0. D.
GENUINE DIAMONDS
They ar* not Imitations of diamonds but a genuine stone, cat end feceUd by
sklilsd diamond cuUarsaxanlyliks a diamond, stand filing, firs and acidteils
like adlamond. Contains no glass, pasteor foilbacking. It sparkles last like a
diamond and on accountof their great hardness will retain their brilliancy
forever. To advertise these Santiago Gems we will for a short time send yonr
choice of the above Solid Gold rlngsC.O.D. IS 00 for the Ladles with carstor
• 10 tO for the Gentswlth 1 % carat Santiago Gems by mail or os press. Give It
sny test you desire and it yon find it is not all we claim return it at our ex pen is.
Send yonr si act site and order at once as this Special Offer Is for a short time
only. Diamond Jewelry Co., D«p. SO , 160 w. Madison BL.Chloaoo,111,
WANT A JOB?
Sleeping-car Porters
wanted for summer and
permanent service. No
experience necessary.
Write to-day for full
information.
AMERICAN SERVICE SCHOOL
Instruction Department
80 Fifth Avenue - - - New York City
SITUATION WANTED
Competent young man desires position
as stenographer and typewriter; rapid and
accurate; touch operator with speed of
fifty words per minute; could furnish own
machine. Address “R,” care Advertising
Department,
THE CRISIS
26 Vesey Street	-	New York
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS
ADVERTISER
351
GIVE US AM HOUR
FOR THIS SWELL SUIT
Made to Your Measure
IT should not take over an hour
and the suit In yours. You never
saw a suit half as bwell—or ns
well mode—or ns perfect fit-
ting—or as up-to-date. You
choose your own cloth and
the stylo you want It made.
Yourfrlendawill flock toyou
all wanting to know about It
and you simply take their
orders. You can be the best
dresser for miles around
without BpcndiDg a cent.
Write Us a Postal Card
and we will send you abso-
lutely free our Elegant Outfit
which Includes everything.
We Prepay All Expreu Chirks.
This is tho chanco of yoax life-
time. so writo us today. Don't
wait. A postal will do.
AMERICAN WOOLEN UHLS CO.,
Dep( | 151	CHICACO
WANTED—ONE MAN OB WOMAN IN EVERY
locality to start a Candy Kitchen. Beat paying
small business on earth I Few dollar* start* you.
Get away from wage slavery. Write for particu-
lars. Native Herbarium Co., Ambler. Pa.
START A BUSINESS OF YOUR OWN
We want live, hustling men and women in every
village, town and city to start a big successful
business of their own. Experience not needed; we
teach you the business. If you have the real
will power you can have an independent business
that will pay you from $75 to $100 per month.
Write to-day before some one in your territory
gets ahead of you. Just inclose a 2-cent stamp for
particulars.
A. BLOUNT & COMPANY
Washington -	--	--	--	- N. C.
Start a Mail Order Business and Make Money
You can operate in your own home during spare
time. The parcel post has opened up the doors of
opportunity to YOU. Others are making $20 to
$500 a week. Why can’t you? By our method
you can start with. $5 and up. We offer you thirty
live, money-making mail order plans. You can
make 95 cents profit on every dollar order. We
furnish circulars, printed matter and place your
advertising at lowest rates. Send 10 cents for
complete outfit. Do it to-day—Now!
_________________ ...	_	► owned by O*.
prevents the de Lies La flues from breaking. Yet they oast
too less than you pay elsewl
Tbe wonderful Stsy-Tyde patent pr
ea from break_	____
inhere for ordinary willows.
Stay-Tyde Willow Plumes
23 in. wide 22 in. long 5.90 26in. wide 25 in. long 7.90
25in. wide 24 in. long 6.90 2? in. wide 27 in. long 9.90
30 in. wide 27 in. long 511.90
Preach Curl Plumes	We have established a world-
17 in flrtecial SI.95 wide reputation on oar No. 401 msg-
1 / in.. B pee LSI,	nificunt 13-inch French Carl Plume.
iS <• „	, . Z'ZX made of rich, glouy. beet male
19	Kx-wldc, 5.00 stock, with wido. broad fibres and
20	*	7.50 heavy French head. <*= AA
QQ •«____*4	10.00 Black, white and colors
Send 25c to cover express charges and we will Bhip
any of above C.OJD. for free examination. Or. Bend
fall purchase price and we will send all charges pre-
paid. Money promptly refunded if for any reason you
are not satisfied.
Sand for *raa catalog of French or Willow Plumes.
Ostrich Bands and Aigrettes, and get a complete $£S
Course in Millinery, Dyeing, Cleaning, Curling, etc.
SOUTH AFRICAN IMPORTING CO.
1841 Wabash Ave. Dept. 4403 CHICAGO
I. RY. C. I.
COLORED MEN
WANTED TO PREPARE AS
SLEEPING-CAR AND TRAIN
PORTERS.
No experience necessary. Posi-
tions pay $65 to $100 a month.
Steady work. New York roads.
Passes and uniforms furnished when
necessary. Write now.
, Dept. 19, Indianapolis, Ind.
SEE OUR SPECIAL OFFER
MAIL DEALERS WHOLESALE HOUSE
517 Dearborn Street	Chicago, I1L
PAGE 349
Highly
Artistic
Postcards
of Negro Subjects
in Colors
W. E. B. Du Bois, the late Paul Laurence Dunbar,
Booker T. Washington, on postcards in halftone
Advance sale of Thanksgiving, Christmas, New Year’s and
other pretty cards. We announce the sale of calendars of Negro
subjects done up in colors and halftone, handsomely designed.
Nothing comic, but work of real art. Catalogue contains confi-
dential prices to agent. Retailer free.
They are big sellers for bazaars and fairs. Samples of all
postcards and one calendar sent for 35 cents postpaid.
J. GRIFFITH ART COMPANY
36-38 BEEKMAN STREET -	- NEW YORK CITY
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
352
MUTUAL TEACHERS’
AGENCY.
Recommends teachers for schools; secures
employment for teachers. Blanks and
information furnished free on application.
1335 T Street, N. W. Washington, D. C.
Wo. 24 Southern Buggy
Highest Grade
A Value Uueqnalcti. Sold on fi.oo
rroit taprom
Factory to User
W rite for prices
and other styles.
Send for catalogue.
C. R. PATTERSON
4 SONS.
Grcosfleld, Ohio
Largest Negro Carriage concern In the United States.
THE EQUITABLE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY OF OKLAHOMA
Incorporated and licensed bj the Insurance
Department of the State of Oklahoma to write life,
health and accident insurance on the level premium
basis. No assessments. Address Home Office
People* Bank & Trust Company Bldg.
Muskogee ------- Oklahoma
r
Telephone Connection
"DEACON” JOHNSON
(That Cheerful Entertainer)
Lesder. Msndolin and Second Tenor with
THE “DEACON’ ’ JOHNSON QUABTET
Montreal New York Philadelphia
Permanent Address:
Times Sq. Sta., Box 317, New York City
MME. FANNIE BELLE DE KNIGHT
Dramatic and Dialect Header. Engagements so-
licited. Students given special training in the
Delaarte Method. Instruction also given in Dialect,
English Grammar and Rhetoric.
Terms Reasonable.
Telephone Momingiide 9045
Studio: 231 W. 134th 8t.	New York City
CONCERT SOLOIST
LULA ROBINSON-JONES
Soprano
For terms write 32 West 131st Street,
New York City
J. E. ORMES
ACCOUNTANT
Audits	Systems
Business information by mail. Open ■ for
engagements July and August.
Box 26, WUherforce University
Wllberforce, O.
This Suit Is Yours
for One Hour's Work
Wf»r it. and when your friends admire It,
■imply take their orders for one like it or
their choice from oar largo selection. In that
way yoa can get all tho clothes you want
absolutely free. It's easy. for our suits
hare class sticking out all over them
and sell like wildfire, and no wonder,
for they are the niftiest, swellcsi, moot
up-to-date clothes you ever saw. Evory
one made to measure and guaranteed
to fit. 24 hoars' examination allowed.
And the lowest prices known.
*• Pay Ezprmaga ob Everyttlog
Too don't hare to Invest a cent. Wo
go the limit with oar mon. Wo furnish
everything yoa noed free in Oar
Big, Complete Outfit
We take tho risk. You will mako
good. Hundreds are now wearing tho
swelled suits In town without costing
them a cent. Yoa can doit.
Act Quick. Get Basy. Send Os a Postal
Simply write your name on a postal
sud tend it today. Tho outfit and oar
grand offer will come to you by return
mall.
PARAGON TAILORING CO..
Dep*.|]5J	CHICAGO
REGALIA
A Race Enterprise
Manufacturing Badges,
Banners and Supplies
for all Fraternal and
Church Societies. Cata-
logue upon request.
CENTRAL REGALIA CO.
Jos. L. Jonco Pr©3.
N. E. Cor. 8th and Plum Sts.
Cincinnati, Ohio
TYPEWRITERS
Agents’ Prices
One machine at wholesale
price to introduce our goods.
Bargains in every make.
Typewriters for $5.00 up.
8TANDARD TYPEWRITER
EXCHANGE
31-B Park Row New York
BOKARA DIAMONDS. Agents, everyone, to wear
and sell our famous Bokara diamonds. Write for
sample offer and catalog free.
NORTHWESTERN JEWELRY COMPANY
Dept. 24
2141 Summerdale Avenue
Chicago. 111.
DESIRABLE APARTMENT
Four roomsj second floor. Conveniences;
heated. One or two adults. Moderate rent.
With owner, 816 Lafayette Avenue,
Brooklyn, N. Y.
SCHOOL OF BEAUTY CULTURE AND HAIR DRESSING
Kelsey’s Hair Dreasing, Hair Grower, Scalp Tonic and Pace Lotion have no eqnaL
Guaranteed tinder Pood and Drag Act, Jane 30, 1006.
Price, 50c each.
KELSEYS
Telephone, Morningxide 8162
143 West 131rt St.
NEW YORK
Manicuring, Shampooing, Hair Dressing, Marcel Wav-
ing, Facial and Body Massage, Hair Making, Chiropody,
etc., scientifically taught. Unlimited practice In parlor
day and night. Pnplla taught at home, If desired.
Diplomas. Special Summer Course, 87.60 up. Send for
booklet. Mme. A. Carter Kelsey, Gen’l Instr.; Dr. Samuel
A. Kelsey, Chiropodist, President and Gen’l Manager.
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
353
$60 A WEEK and EXPENSES
YOU
CAN GET IT
That’s tha money you can get this year. I mean It. I want County Sales Managers
quick, men or women who bell ©to In the square deal, who will go Into partnership with
me. No capital or experience needed. My folding Bath Tub haa taken the country by
storm. 8olyes the bathing problem. No plumhlng, no water works required. Full length
bath In any room. Folds in small roll, handy as an umbrella. I tell you It's great 1
GREAT I Rlrals $100 bath room. Now listen! I want YOU to handle your county
I'll furnish demonstrating tub free. I'm positive—absolutely certain—you can get bigger
money In a week with me than you ever made In a month before—I KNOW IT 1
TWO SALES A DAY----------------------$300 A MONTH
That's what you get—every month. Needed in every home, badly wanted, eagerly bought.
, Modem bathing facilities for all the people. Take the orders right and left.	Quick
sales. Immense profits. Look at these men.	Kunkle. Ohio, received $240 first week*
I Mathias. Florida. $120 In two days; Corrigan. New York. $114 in 60 hours; Newton.
---	California. $60 In three days. You can do as welL TWO
SALKS A DAY MEANS $300 A MONTH. The work Is very
easy, pleasant, permanent, fascinating. It means a business
of your own.
I grant credit, furnish sample, help you out. back you up—
don’t doubt, don't hesitate, don't hold back. You cannot
lose. My other men are building homes, bank accounts so
can you. Act. then, quick. SEND NO MONEY. Just name
on penny post card for free tub offer. Hustle I
H. S. ROBINSON
President
190 Vance St., Toledo, O.
DEMONSTRATING
TUB FREE
Homes in Long Island!
Few people realize the wonderful possibilities of Long Island
property, the rapid growth of that section of the city and its wonderful
future.
WE ARE SELLING GOOD HOMES IN CORONA, with all
improvements, only five cents carfare to New York. Corona is in the
very center of Greater New York, and in a-few months will be reached
by the rapid transit lines of Manhattan, giving to the people of that
section of the city a five-cent carfare to any section of Manhattan.
The only place within thirty minutes of Times Square, Grand
Central Station or the Pennsylvania Station, where the man of small
means can get a modern home with all improvements at a moderate
cost. We would be glad to have you visit Corona at our expense.
Corona is one of the highest elevations in New York City, has an
excellent car service, good schools, excellent water supply and the best
place in all New York for children. For full particulars as to price
and terms address
L. S. REED & COMPANY
142 Hunter Avenue............-	Long Island City
Some choice investment lots for $50 on reasonable terms
Mention The Crisis.
354
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
a
The Negro’s Progress in
Fifty Years”
Articles by well-known authors, including
Rooker T. Washington, LL. D.
Principal Tuskegee Normal and Indus-
trial Institute.
W. E. Burghardt Du Bois, Ph. D.
Editor The Crisis, New York.
Edward T. Ware, A. B.
President Atlanta University.
Kelly Miller, LL. D.
Dean Howard University.
Prices: paper, $1; cloth, $1.50
American Academy of Political
and Social Science
West Philadelphia Station
Philadelphia, Pa.
ANNOUNCEMENT
MASTERPIECES OF
NEGRO ELOQUENCE
Edited by Alice M. Dunbar
Fifty speeches of remarkable oratory.
A magnificent tribute to the intellectual
development of the colored race.
Strongly endorsed by Negro scholars.
A splendid piece of book workmanship.
Fine gift for the holidays.
Price $2.50 Postage 26 cents
THE BOOKERY PUBLISH-
ING COMPANY
12 East 38th Street, New York
Atlanta University
Studies of the
Negro Problems
17 Monographs	Sold Separately
Address:
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIOLOGY
Atlanta University, Atlanta, Ga.
The Curse of Race Prejudice
By James F. Morton, Jr., A. M.
An aggressive exposure by an Anglo-Saxon
champion of equal rights. Startling facts and crush-
ing arguments. Fascinating reading. A necessity
for clear understanding ana up-to-date propaganda.
Belongs In the library of every friend of social
justice. Price 25 centB. Send orders to
JAMES F. MORTON, JR.
244 West 143d Street	New York, N. Y.
A Book of Exceptional Interest
to Readers of The Crisis
LIBERIA
Descriptive — History — Problems
By
STARR
FREDERICK
of the
University of Chicago
No other book like it. Buy it. Read it.
Talk about it. Sent postpaid for $1.10
postal money order. Address
FREDERICK STARR
5541 Drexel Avenue - - - Chicago, 111.
Suitable Books for Holiday Gifts
Address The Crisis
26 Vesey Street -	-	- New York
A new book of special interest
LINCOLN and SLAVERY
By ALBERT E. PILLSBURY
Mr. Pillsbury, who was formerly Attorney-General of Massachusetts, gives
in this volume an admirable review of Abraham Lincoln’s real attitude toward
Slavery and Emancipation, with historical evidence, principally from Lincoln
himself, of his steady and consistent efforts to restrict the former and accom-
plish the latter. It is a valuable contribution to Lincoln literature, as helping
to a true understanding of this greatest of all Americans in the supreme act
of his life. At all bookstores. 12mo, 75 cents net. By mail, 82 cents.
HOUGHTON-MIFFLIN COMPANY
4 Park Street -	-	Boston, Mass.
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
355
LEGAL DIRECTORY
Residence 2546 Michigan	Offloa Phene
Bell Phone E-2161	Home 58 Main
C.	H. CALLOWAY
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Notary Public
117 W. 6th Street	Eizuu City, Mo.
FRANKLIN W. WILLIAMS
Attorney and Gounielor-at-Law
Notary Public
Beal Estate Conveyancer
206 Parrish Street	Durham, N. 0.
Office L. D. Telephone 8297 Market
Residence L. D. Telephone, 5277-M Market
GEORGE A. DOUGLAS
Counselor-at-Law
Booms 613-614, Metropolitan Building
113 Market St., Cor. Washington, Newark, N. J.
General Practice	Notary Public
WILLIAM R. MORRIS
Attorney and Oounaelor-at-Law
1020 Metropolitan Life Building
Minneapolis, Minn.
BROWN S. SMITH
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Offices: Suite 610, 8ykes Block.
Minneapolis, Minn.
GEORGE W. MITCHELL
Attorney-at-Law
908 Walnut Street
Philadelphia, Pa.
Tel. 2026 Fort Hill	Gable Address, Epben
EDGAR P. BENJAMIN
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
34 SCHOOL STREET	Boston, Mass.
Telephone Oonnection
W. Ashbie Hawkins	George W. F. McMechen
HAWKINS & McMECHEN
Attorneys-at-Law
21 East Saratoga Street	Baltimore, Md.
Phones! Office, Bell 4059; New 420-M.
Residence, New 733-A.
THOS. E. GREENE, JR.
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Notary Public
Maloney Block	Youngstown, Ohio
William H. Austin	Edmund O. Austin
Law Offices of
AUSTIN & AUSTIN
St. Paul Building, 220 Broadway, New York
Suite 7—H, I, J, K
Telephones: 7400,	5365,	5366 Oortlandt
B.	F. BOOTH
Attorney-at-Law
57 N. SECOND STREET - MEMPHIS, TENN.
LEGAL DIRECTORY—Continued
rp i v . I Central 104W
Telephones. { Main fil
HARRY E. DAVIS
Attorney-at-Law	Notary Public
1607 Williamson Bldg.	Cleveland, O.
Telephone 5552 Cedar
R.	O. LEE
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Practice in All Courts
25 and 26 Union Block, 4th A Cedar, St. Paul, Minn.
• / Office : Main 9168
Telephones. {Residence: Vermont 1156
E. BURTON CERUTI
Lawyer
500-501-502 Thorpe Building
Corner Broadway and Franklin Streets
Residence: 1540 W. 36th Place Los Angeles, Cal.
PERSONAL CARDS
Telephone 5277 Morningside
DR GERTRUDE E. CURTIS
Surgeon Dentist
188 West 135th Street, New York City
Telephone 4885 Morningside
DR. D. W. ONLEY
Surgeon Dentist
S. W. Cor. 133d St. and Lenox Ave., New York
Office Hours: 9 to 12 a. a., 1 to 9 p. m.
Sundays by Appointment
‘Phones: Residence, 515; Office. 642; Hospital. 403.
DR. J. R. SHEPPARD
Physician and Surgeon
Chief surgeon and superintendent of Sheppard Sanitarium and
Nurse Training SchooL
Marshall................................................Texas
Telephone 4048 Prospect
JOHN B. MOSELEY
REAL ESTATE and INSURANCE
640 Fulton Street	Brooklyn, N. Y.
HOTEL WASHINGTON
First-class Service for First-class People
3252 Wabash Avenue,
Chicago, 111.
UNDERTAKERS
Telephone Columbus 3935	Open All Night
RODNEY DADE & BROS.
Undertakers and Embalmers
Notary Public
Funeral Parlor and Cbapel Free.
Licensed Lady Embalmer	Prompt Servio#
266 West 53d Street	New York, N. Y.
Between Broadway and 8th Avenue
Mention The Crisis.
356
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE
ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE
Offices: 26 Ve*ey Sheet, New York.	Incorporated May 25, 1911
OFFICERS
National President—Mr. Moorfleld Storey, Boston,
Mass.
Vice-Presidents—
Rev. John Haynes Holmes, New York.
Mr. John E. Mllholland, New York.
Bishop Alexander Walters, New York.
Rev. Garnet R. Waller, Baltimore, Md.
Miss Mary White Ovington, Brooklyn, N. Y.
Chairman of the Board of Directors—
Mr. Oswald Garrison Villard, Now York.
Treasurer—Mr. Walter E. Sachs, Now York.
Director of Publicity and Research—
Dr. W. E. B. Du Bois, New York.
National Organizer—Dr. M. C. B. Mason, Cincinnati.
Secretary—Miss May Childs Nerney, Brooklyn, N. Y.
This is the Association which seeks to put into
practice the principles which THE CRISIS puts
into words. If you believe what we SAY, join this
Association and help us to put our words into
DEEDS.
MEMBERSHIP BLANK
I hereby accept membership in the NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE
ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE.
Please find enclosed---dollars and enter my name as a member in Class
--------paying $-------a year, and send me THE CRISIS.
Name...-_________________________
Address
Class 1. Donors, paying $100 to $500 per
year.
Class 2. Sustaining Members, paying
$25 per year.
Class 3. Contributing Members, paying
$2 to $10 per year.
Class 4. Associate Members, paying $1
per year.
The subscription to THE CRISIS is $1 extra, except to members paying $2 or more,
who signify their wish that $1 of their dues be considered a CRISIS subscription.
All members in good standing have the privilege of attending and voting at the
Annual Conference of the Association.
PLEASE MAZE CHECKS PAYABLE TO NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE, 26 VESEY STREET, NEW YORK CITY.
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
357
EslfIcb’s Princess Hair Oil
This is the preparation you are looking
for. It keeps your hair and scalp in good
condition. It has no equal for dry and
feverish scalps. Sent anywhere on receipt
of 50 cents.
JAMES T. EARLE
P. O. Box 390	-	- Newport, R. I.
WANTED
500 Negro families (farmers preferred) to
settle on FREE Government Lands in
'Chaves County, New Mexico. Blackdom is
a Negro colony. Fertile soil, ideal climate.
No “Jim Crow” Laws. For information
write
JAS. HAROLD COLEMAN
Blackdom ----- New Mexico
MILES M. WEBB
Chicago’s Expert Photographer
I specialize in every phase of artlatlo picture making
Send me your photos for' enlargement. Price* reasonable
Satisfaction guaranteed.	'Phone 6688 Douglass.
WEBB STUDIO
3519 State Street	Chicago, 111.
PITU-ZIT-*
The new odorless disinfectant at
less than one-quarter cent per gallon.
Safe, efficient, economical.
The only disinfectant that abso-
lutely destroys any odor without leav-
ing another. “U-Zit” is just starting.
Start with it. Antiseptic and harmless.
One teaspoonful makes three gallons.
Hot or cold water.
“U-Zit” for scrubbing. “U-Zit” for
dishwashing.
“U-Zit” for cleaning woodwork,
windows, refrigerators.
“U-Zit” for thoroughly disinfecting
toilets, etc.
“U-Zit” for cleaning the barn,
dairies, etc.
“U-Zit” to kill all germs and better
preserve health.
“U-Zit” is guaranteed to be as rep-
resented or money refunded. Sample
test free. Can we be of service to
you? Personal references given.
“U-Zit” is put up in cans and retailed
for the small sum of $1 per pound.
Special five-pound can, $4, F. O. B.
Chicago. Terms, thirty days. Address
U-ZIT SPECIALTIES CO.
' 3726 S. Dearborn St., Chicago, 111.
Grand Supreme
Governor
The Loyal Knights and
Ladies of Malachites
is incorporated under the
laws of the District of Col-
umbia. Its Object is to com-
bine the Negroes of the
world for their mutual ad-
vancement along indus-
trial and commercial lines.
It also stands for the full
enjoyment by the Negro of
his civil and political rights.
This movement is interna-
tional in its scope; we have
lodges not only in the United States but in
Jamaica, B. W. I.; Colon, Bocas del Toro, Pan-
ama (Canal Zone) and Costa Rica. It is a dark
day for the Negro and he must come together.
Race movements have failed because our peo-
ple were told that by contributing thereto the
race only would bebenefited, but no tangible
individaal benefits were offered. By our plan
the member pays 35c. per month in the Asso-
ciation and receives $4.00 per week sick ben-
efits and $100 at death. We not only look
after the race but each individual member as
well. A big convention is soon to be held here.
We want a lodge in every village, hamlet and
town and a delegate to be sent to this conven-
tion. Organizers wanted everywhere. For
full particulars, write
KNIGHTS OF MALACHITES
1111 You St. N. W. Washington. D. C. J
Consult Our List of Suitable Books for
Holiday Gifts
THE CRISIS
26 Vesey Street -	- New York
Mention The Crisis.
358
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
31jp National SUltgtnua
®rat«t«3 Adjani
“I cordially commend the school’s interest and needs to all who
believe in the Negro race and in our obligation to help promote its
intellectual, moral and religious uplift.”
—Rev. Dr. Charles H. Parkhurst, New York City.
It Is MORE|Than a Mere School
It Is a COMMUNITY ot Service andl Uplift
Its influence is destined to be felt in all sections of the
country in improved Negro community life wherever our
trained workers locate.
Settlement workers, missionaries for home and foreign
mission fields, Y. M. G. A. and Y. W. G. A. secretaries and
district nurses receive a comprehensive grasp of their studies
under a Wellesley graduate and experienced co-workers and
actual every-day practice through the school’s social service
department.
We aim also to create a better qualified ministry, industrial
training, advanced literary branches, business school.
Thirty-two acres; ten modern buildings; healthful location.
We can accommodate a few more earnest, ambitious
students. Communities requiring social workers should
write us.
For catalog and detailed information address:
PRESIDENT JAMES E. SHEPARD
National Religious Training School, - Durham, N. G.
The school has no endowment fund and must raise a yearly maintenance fund of
$15,000 for running expenses. Won’t you help us this year?
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
359
A Life of
NORRIS WRIGHT CUNEY
By
MAUD CUNEY HARE
(His daughter)
Would you like to read about a red-blooded man who was
one of the great leaders of Negro Americans? Would you like
to inspire your children with the life of this “Tribune of the
Black People”?
8vo; 250 pages. Postpaid, $1.50. Best terms to agents.
Published to-day.
THE CRISIS PUBLISHING COMPANY
26 Vesey Street ------ New York
Provident Hospital and Training School
for Colored Nurses
Aim: To keep its technic equal to the best
36th and Dearborn Sts., Chicago, III.
Founded 1891
The first training school for colored
nurses in this country, Freedman's
excepted.
Comprises a training school for
nurses, hospital, dispensary, and
thoroughly equipped children’s depart-
ment; when funds are ample, post-
graduate work may be undertaken.
The hospital is open to all. The
races co-operate in the board of
trustees, in the medical staff and in
administration; the institution is the
only one of its kind in which a colored
man may act as interne.
Cost of buildings and equipment,
$100,000; free from debt. Endowment,
$50,000, contributed mostly by wills
made by colored men. Additional
endowment needed, $50,000.
The nurses’ course covers three
years; training and instruction given
by both races, according to the highest
modern standards.
Mention The Crisis.
360
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
HAZEL
The Story of a Little Colored Girl


HAZEL
Price $1.00 net. Postage prepaid, $1.08. For sale
through our agents and at The Crisis office.
CRISIS PUBLISHING COMPANY
26 VESEY STREET	NEW YORK CITY
By MARY WHITE OVINGTON
Author of “Half a Man”
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
361
An Illustrated Weekly Magazine for Busy Thinking People
THE INDEPENDENT now appears in a new form
with many improvements. A larger page, more and
better illustrations, a wider popular appeal. Pre-
eminently a forward-looking magazine, its articles and
pictures dealing with men and affairs of to-day and to-
morrow. A timely, human, comprehensive, non-partisan
weekly journal.
The Independent was founded in 1848 as a progressive
religious journal, particularly for Gongregationalists who
protested against conservatism in theology and pro-slavery
politics. With the New York Tribune, it was the most
influential foe of slavery in the land until slavery had come
to an end through war.
It has ever been the foe of race prejudice in all its
forms and has stood stanchly for the right of the Negro
and all other oppressed peoples. Few periodicals have
espoused more unpopular causes and still fewer have seen
so many of them triumph.
The new Independent will be different from any other
periodical in the world. Price $3 a year.
We have a liberal proposition for agents. Write
THE INDEPENDENT
Desk F
119 WEST FORTIETH STREET, NEW YORK CITY
Mention The Crisis.
362
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
International Records for
Speed, Accuracy, Stability
Tell the tale of TYPEWRITER
SUPREMACY. They prove
= that the	■
Underwood
HOLDS EVERY INTERNATIONAL AWARD EVER MADE FOR
Rapid, Perfect Work
"The Machine You Will
Eventually Buy
99
UNDERWOOD TYPEWRITER CO. (Inc.), Underwood Building, NEW YORK
Branches in All Principal Cities
Mention The Crisis.
Get a Standard Life Policy
and Then Hold On to It”
==THERE A R E	---
THIRTEEN Reasons Why
Let us send them to you and let us tell you
what we can do for you at your age. Give
name, age and occupation.
Capital Stock (Paid in) .	.	.	$100,000.00
Surplus.......................21,211.00
Purely old line legal reserve. Not fraternal. Not assessment.
OFFICERS
Heman E. Perry, President
A.	L. Lewis, Vice-President R. L. Isaacs, Vice-President.
L.	J. Garth, Vice-President Thomas H. Hayes, Vice-President
Harry H. Pace, Secretary A. F. Herndon, Treasurer
Thomas H. Slater, M. D., Medical Director
M.	W. Bullock, Counsel	H. C. Dugas, Assistant Secretary
George Dyre Eldridge, Consulting Actuary
Standard Life Insurance Company
HOME OFFICE................ATLANTA, GA.
Branch offices in Georgia, Alabama, Tennessee and Kentucky
Mention The Crisis.
Suitable Gift Books
03® PRICE INCLUDES POSTAGE HJ £B
The Quest of the Silver Fleece. W. E. B. Du Bois......$1.50
House Behind the Cedars. Charles W. Chesnutt.......... 1.65
Hazel. Mary White Ovington............................ 1.08
Autobiography of an ex-Colored Man. Anonymous......... 1.40
The Testing Fire. Alexander Corkey.................... 1.35
Lyrics of Lowly Life. Paul Laurence Dunbar............ 1.40
Marrow of Tradition. Charles W. Chesnutt.............. 1.65
The Sport of the Gods. Paul Laurence Dunbar........... 1.65
Norris Wright Cuney. Maud Cuney Hare.................. 1.60
A Narrative of the Negro. Lelia Amos Pendleton........ 1.65
Souls of Black Folk. W. E. B. Du Bois................. 1.35
Race Adjustment. Kelly Miller......................... 2.15
History of the Negro. B. G. Brawley................... 1.35
Half a Man. Mary White Ovington....................... 1.12
Mind of Primitive Man. Franz Boas..................... 1.65
Aftermath of Slavery. William Sinclair................ 1.65
John Brown. W. E. B. Du Bois.......................... 1.45
Race Prejudice. Jean Finot............................ 3.25
Story of the Negro. Booker T. Washington.............. 3.25
Flower o’ the Peach. Percival Gibbon.................. 1.45
Address
THE CRISIS
Twenty-six Vesey Street -	-	-	New York City
Mention The Crisis.



(Eljnstmaa
nf
tike CRISIS
which will come to you
monthly during the new
year as a gift from
Do You Like The Crisis?
Are you willing to help in our cam-
paign for a circulation of 50,000 ?
If so, send for one or more of these beautiful
Xmas cards, printed in three colors on cards with
gilded and beveled edges, together with envelopes.
Sent free for the asking.
THE CRISIS, 26 Vesey Street, NEW YORK
THE CRISIS
A RECORD OF THE DARKER RACES
PUBLISHED BY THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE, AT 26 VESEY STREET, NEW YORK CITY
Conducted by
W. E. BURGHARDT DU BOIS
AUGUSTUS GRANVILLE DILL, Business Manager
Contents for December, 1913
PICTURES
COVER PICTURE: Madonna and the Child.
Copyright photograph from life by W. L. Brockman. (Orders taken by The Crisis)
“MAMMY’S LI’Lr BABY BOY.”	Page
Photograph from life by Grace Moseley............. 67
THE NATIONAL EMANCIPATION EXPOSITION: THE TEMPLE
OF BEAUTY IN THE GREAT	COURT OF FREEDOM.......... 78
THE HISTORICAL PAGEANT OF THE NEGRO RACE: FORTY
MAIDENS DANCE BEFORE THE ENTHRONED PHARAOH
RA, THE NEGRO ................................... 79
ARTICLES
THE MAN THEY DIDN’T KNOW. A Story. By James D. Corrothers.
Part 1.......................................... 85
CHILDREN OF THE SUN. A Poem.	By	Fenton Johnson..... 91
DEPARTMENTS
ALONG THE COLOR LINE................................. 59
MEN OF THE MONTH..................................... 65
OPINION .........................................   68
EDITORIAL ........................................... 80
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE................................... 88
THE BURDEN........................................... 92
TEN CENTS A COPY; ONE DOLLAR A YEAR
FOREIGN SUBSCRIPTIONS TWENTY-FIVE CENTS EXTRA
RENEWALS:	When a subscription blank is attached to this page a renewal of your
subscription is desired. The date of the expiration of your subscription will be found on the
wrapper.
CHANGE OF ADDRESS: The address of a subscriber can be changed as often as desired.
In ordering a change of address, both the old and the new address must be given. Two weeks'
notice is required.
MANUSCRIPTS and drawings relating to colored people are desired. They must be accom-
panied by return postage. If found unavailable they will be returned.
Entered as Second-class Matter in the Post Office at Neve York, N. Y.
56
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
Atlanta University
Is beautifully located in the City of Atlanta, Ga.
The courses of study include High School, Nor-
mal School and College, with manual training
and domestic science. Among the teachers are
graduates of Yale, Harvard, Dartmouth, Smith
and Wellesley. Forty-two years of successful
work have been completed. Students come from
all parts of the South. Graduates are almost
universally successful.
For further information address
President EDWARD T. WARE
ATLANTA, GA.
Knoxville College
Beautiful Situation. Healthful Location.
The Best Moral and Spiritual Environment.
A Splendid Intellectual Atmosphere.
Noted for Honest and Thorough Work.
Offers full courses in the following departments:
College, Normal, High School, Grammar School and
Industrial.
Good water, steam heat, electric lights, good
drainage. Expenses very reasonable.
Opportunity for 8elf-help.
Fall Term Began September, 1913.
For information address
President R. W. McGRANAHAN
KNOXVILLE, TENN.
"In the Heart of the Healthy Hills”
The Agricultural and
Mechanical College
NORMAL, ALABAMA
Makes a special effort to meet the needs of
young people who must work out their own salva-
tion. It gives breadwinners a chance to go to
school and so puts a first-class English education and
a trade within the reach of every young person of
push and purpose.
Board, lodging and washing cost $9 per month.
An entrance fee of $10 covers medicine, hospital
care and doctor’s bill for the year.
School opens the first Monday in October and
closes the last Thursday in May.
WALTER S. BUCHANAN, President
Ulrglnia Union Unioer$iiy
RICHMOND, VA.
A College Department, of high standards and
modern curriculum.
A Theological Department, with all subjects
generally required in the best theological seminaries.
An Academy, with manual training, giving a
preparation for life or for college.
The positive moral and religious aim of the
school, its high standards of entrance and of class
work, its fine new buildings and well-equipped
laboratories and library prepare a faithful student
for a life of wide usefulness.
The Agricultural and
Mechanical College
Maintained by the govern-
ments of North Carolina and of
the United States. Open all the
year round. For males only.
Winter term begins December 1,
1913. Board, lodging and tuition,
$7 per month. Best opportunities
for Negro youth. Night school
for indigent but ambitious young
men. For catalog or further
information, address
PRESIDENT DUDLEY
A.	& M. College Greensboro, N. C.
GEORGE RICE HOVEY, President
ST. MARY’S SCHOOL
An Episcopal boarding and day school
for girls, under the direction of the Sisters
of St. Mary. Address:
THE SISTER-IN-CHARGE
611 N. 43d St.	W. Philadelphia, Pa.
BISHOP COLLEGE. MARSHALL. TEX.
Maintains collego, academic, theological, musical, normal,
grammar and Industrial departments. Offers the moat ad-
vanced courses and Ls the best-equipped school for Negroea in
the Southwest For information address
C. H. MAXSON, President
CARNEGIE COLLEGE-HOME STUDY
"60 PAGE BULLETIN FREE”
COURSES BY MAIL
Grammar School Agricultural
High School	Poultry.
Norma	i Domestic Science
Professiona	Civil Service
Penmanship	Engineering
Type-writing	Drawing
I Short-hand.	English
: Book-keeping	Language
M«nl Law '	Real Estate
- 'v Reduced rates of tuition to first
\ applicants. For "Free Bulletin”
*—- i and "Special Scholarship,” apply
CARNEGIE COLLEGE
Proa. GALBREATH______No. 1PD St., ROGERS, Ohio.
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
57
cIhz Art of Printing
AS EXEMPLIFIED IN OUR WORK EMBODIES THE FOL-
LOWING POINTS OF MERIT:
l (a) Neat
1.	Stationery	< (b) Attractive
( (c) Quality
j (a) Polite
2.	Form	■< (b) Business
( (c) Social
f (a) Artistic
3.	Workmanship •< (b) Correct
( (c) Prompt
We Print THE CRISIS
ROBERT N. WOOD, Printing and Engraving
202 EAST 99th STREET Telephone: Lenox 6667	NEW YORK
1914
Crisis Calendar
Contains four leaves, neatly
tied and ready for hanging,
each leaf bearing a Crisis
picture.
Let each day remind you of
The Crisis and its creed.
Price 25 cents
THE CRISIS
26 Vesey Street, New York City
J.	E. ORMES
ACCOUNTANT
Audit*	System*
Business information by mail. Open for
engagements July and August.
Box 26, Wilberforce University
Wilberforce, O.
UNDERWOOD
TYPEWRITER
HAS NO RIVALS IN
SPEED and
ACCURACY
It holds all world’s rec-
ords in open competition.
“The Machine You Will Eventually Buy”
Underwood Typewriter Co.
Incorporated
Underwood Building New York
Branches in all principal cities.
Mention The Crisis.
58
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
OF INTEREST TO VOCAl STUDENTS
TONE-PLACING AND
VOICE- DEVELOPMENT
Points explained, viz.: Breath
in Singing, Trying the Voice, the
Soprano, the Mezzo-Soprano, the
Contralto, Tenor Loggiero or High
Tenor, the Baritone, the Bass,
Parts of the Vocal Apparatus, the
Mouth, the Tongue, Position When
Practising,' Position When Singing,
How to Practice, Good Buies for
Singing.
Comment from the world-renowned conductor of
the Paulist Choir of Chicago, 111., whose choir has
just received the first prize awarded at the Sing-
ing Contest held in Paris on May 25, 1912:
"Dear Mr. Tinsley:
"I take great pleasure in commending your very useful and
succinctly written book on ‘Tone-Plaelng and Voice-Develop-
ment.' Tour ojvn appreciation of the psychology of singing
and the fundamental principles of the art you have cleverly
reduced to a aim pis system.	Cordially yours,
"Father WILLIAM J. FINN. C. 8. P..
Director Paulist Choristers of Chicago."
From "Musical Courier.” N. Y.: "A very practical little
book la ‘Tone-PlacInQ and Voice-Development,' by Pedro T.
Tlnaley. It contains some Tery excellent material and vocal
exercises, and should be In the hands of all vocal students.
From "Music News." Chicago, UL: "Accordingly his
'PraotlcaJ Method of Singing' Is a most concise and practical
little manual, containing many valuable vocal exercises. It
cannot fall to be helpful to all ambitious vocal students.
HELPED HIM GREATLY
“Since I practized your exercises of ‘Tone-Placing
and Voice-Development' my voice is more resonant
than it has been for years. It seems to me that I
am getting a new voice.” Prof. John T. Layton,
Director Coleridge-Taylor Musical Society, 1722 10th
St., N. W., Washington, D. C.
PRICE $1.00
Address the publisher: PEDRO T. TINSLEY
6448 Drexel Avenue	CHICAGO, TT.T.
ARCHITECTS
WHAT THE WORLD IS SAYING ABOUT
Little
Dreaming
By
FENTON
JOHNSON
Who is acclaimed by prominent critics, leading
authors and the international press as the foremost
romantic poet and one of the greatest writers of
African strain.
“Praiseworthy in the ways of imagination,^mys-
ticism and romance.”—Chicago “Daily Nows.”
Josephine Turck Baker, editor of “Correct Eng-
lish,” says: “When the young poet brought his
verses to me I felt that a new singer had come
among us, singing of love, of passion, of joy and
sorrow, sounding the depths and climbing the
heights. In the brighter passages there exists the
deft touch of the born artist, while in the deeper
moments he makes sentient the emotions of the
soul—a soul that has lived and suffered.''
Published by Peterson Company, Chicago. Vellum
de luxe edition, 75 cents, net, illustrated.
Now running in its second edition.
Agents wanted in colleges, towns and cities.
Address:
CENTRAL DISTRIBUTION STATION
3522 State Street Suite 5 Chicago, III.
TANDY & FOSTER
Architects
1931 Broadway	New York
Telephone 5368 Columbus
H. HENRY HARRIS
Architect
Cor. 8th and Princess Streets
Wilmington, N. C.
WILLIAM L. BELL
Architect
13854 Auburn Avenue - - - Atlanta, Ga.
CONCERT SOLOIST
LULA ROBINSON-JONES
* Soprano
For terms write 32 West 131st Street,
New York City
MME. FANNIE BELLE DE KNIGHT
Dramatic and Dialect Reader. Engagements
licited. Students given special training in the
Delsarte Method. Instruction also given In Dialect,
English Grammar and Rhetoric.
Terms Reasonable.
Telephone Mornlngside 9045
Studio: 281 W. 184th 8t.	New York City
LEARN TO READ MUSIO AT SIGHT N *
FOR $1.00	. j* a
-S______________i__J_ * Jl *	— r
Anyone In the "Brass Band" or "Stringed Orchestra” mi»y
leam In a few hours to master the Instrument he loves with
our "Sight Reader" and "Sight Reader Positions."
$1 (cash). Address
WILLIAM D. SMITH
1636 Clarion Street
Philadelphia, Pa.
Statement of the Ownership, Management, etc.,
of THE CRISIS, published monthly at 26 Vesey
Street, New York, required by the act of August
24, 1912.
Editor:	W. E. Burghardt Du Bois, 26 Vesey
Street, New York City.
Business Manager: Augustus Granville Dill, 26
Vesey Street, New York City.
Publisher:	The National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People, 26 Vesey Street,
New York City.
Owners:	The Notional Association for the Ad-
vancement of Colored People, a corporation with no
stock.
Known bondholders, mortgagees and other security
holders, holding 1 per cent, or more of total amount
of bonds, mortgages or other securities, none.
* A. G. DILL,
Business Manager.
Sworn to and subscribed before me this first
day of October, 1913.
C. H. ARRINGTON,
Notary Public,
[Seal]	County of Queens.
Mention The-Crisis.
THE CRISIS
Vol. 7—No. 2	DECEMBER. 1913	WWe No. 38
SOCIAL UPLIFT.
lyT ISS MARY VIDA CLARK, assistant
^ A secretary of the children’s depart-
ment of the State Charities Aid Association,
289 Fourth Avenue, Room 82, New York,
wants to send a charming little colored girl
of 3, pictured here, to Darlington, S. C.,
to a clergyman and his wife, who have
agreed to adopt her. These good people be-
came interested in the little girl through Miss
Clark’s story which appeared in The Crisis
for January, 1913. Will any readers of
The Crisis who expect to be traveling
South soon, and who would be willing to
take the little girl to her new home, kindly
communicate with Miss Clark? It would
be necessary to take the child to-the nearest
large city where she could be met.

Q Carroll Trotty, a colored hotel waiter,
rescued a white boy from drowning in the
Thunderbolt River in Savannah recently.
<1 The colored people had three floats in the
Columbus Day parade in Boston, represent-
ing the Crispus Attucks incident, the attack
on Fort Wagner and the part played by
colored women in the Civil War. One of
the prizes awarded for the best portrayal
of an historical feature was won by the
Crispus Attucks float.
<1 Judge Kananagh, of the Illinois Supreme
Court, made a strong plea for justice
toward the Negro in a speech delivered be-
fore the Irish Fellowship Club in Chicago.
He advocated the appointment of a national
commission to inquire into the existing dis-
criminations against the Negro.
<3 Colored girls employed as waitresses in
Gimbel’s department store, in New York
City, who were discharged some time ago,
have been reinstated.	'
<3 Among the three heroes of the “Volturno”
disaster who stand out above the rest was
S.	J. Rudder, a colored fireman who stuck
to his post, reviving the confidence of the
. other firemen, and finally jumped into the
sea, late in the night.
Recently hotels at St. Louis, Baltimore,
Albany, N. Y., Lake George and other
places have dismissed white waiters for col-
ored ones.
Q Tamina, Tex., with a population of white
and colored, has a colored postmistress.
60
THE CRISIS
*3 Miss Clotee Scott, a young colored
woman, has opened up a settlement house
for Negroes in Hyde Park, a suburb of
Chicago.
<3 The large Kaufman department store in
Pittsburgh, Pa., has installed colored eleva-
tor men in the place of white ones.
<3 John D. Rockefeller has subscribed $2,500
to the National League on Urban Condi-
tions, located in New York City, provided
the league raises the additional $13,500 of
the budget of $16,000.
*3 On the last day of the fall meeting of the
Douglass Park Racing Association in Louis-
ville, Ky., Clubs, a horse owned by a colored
man and ridden by a colored jockey, Dish-
mon, ran two miles in within two-fifths of
a second of the world’s record and won the
cup race.
<3 The Negroes of Kansas City, Mo., are
attempting to raise $30,000 for a colored
hospital, as the colored people of that city
have few hospital facilities. Recently the
Kansas City colored people raised $30,000
for a Y. M. C. A.
<3 A certain man whose name is not given
has written to the editor of the New York
Globe offering the use of a number of large
houses in New Jersey, about an hour’s ride
from New York, to be used as a social
settlement for Negroes.
Q At a recent baby show held in Fall
River, Mass., the first prize was won by a
one-year-old colored baby, the only colored
entrant in the contest.
<3 A National Tennis Association was re-
cently organized in Baltimore by colored
delegates representing that city, Washing-
ton and Philadelphia. All cities in which
there are tennis clubs will be invited to join
the association. Dr. Henry Freeman, of
Washington, is president and Mr. Adams,
of Philadelphia, secretary-treasurer of the
association.
<3 Colored women in Birmingham, Ala.,
have formed an anti-tuberculosis club.
There are absolutely no provisions made for
colored people at the Birmingham tubercu-
losis camp.
<3 Miss Minnie D. Woodard, a graduate of
the nurse-training department of Meharry
Medical College, is the first colored girl
who has received a certificate of registration
MISS M. D. WOODARD.
as a trained nurse issued by authority of
the State board of nurse examiners of
Tennessee. This certificate was obtained
through the efforts of the Nashville Negro
board of trade, which took the matter up
almost two years ago. Even after the board
had won its case there were objections from
the white nurses in the State.
EDUCATION.
HP HE American Colonization Society has
*** paid over to Liberia $60,000 for the
education of the children of the Negro re-
public. This was the gift of Caroline
Donovan, bequeathed twenty-seven years
ago, but legally involved up to this time.
<3 Eight Southern States were represented
in the second annual meeting of the
Association of Negro Industrial and
Secondary Schools held at 26 Yesey Street.
The association adopted a constitution and
plans.
<3 Both in Savannah and Atlanta, Ga., thou-
sands of colored school children have been
turned away from the schools because there
is no room for them. In Atlanta some of
the largest grades are in the damp, dark
basements. A new school has been promised
Savannah next year, which will alleviate
conditions somewhat.
<3 A building valued at $9,500 has been
purchased for the Chicago Colored Religious
Seminary. This school has been in exist-
ence for more than a year, but up to this
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
61
time has held its sessions in Olivet Church,
Chicago.
*3 The Negroes of Greenville, S. C., are
making an effort to raise money for the
improvement of their school facilities.
<3 The board of education of Washington,
D.	C., has asked Congress for an appropria-
tion of $500,000 for a new colored high
school.
*1 Southern University, formerly at New
Orleans, but now at Iberia, La., established
some time back in the 70’s, has, in the
person of Mr. J. S. Clark, its first colored
president.
<3 Sayer Business College, in Pasadena.
Cal., has opened its doors to a colored stu-
dent for the first time, in the person of
Miss Margie L. Danley.
<3 The board of education of Washington,
D. C., has sent a request to Howard Univer-
sity asking the university to establish exten-
sion courses leading to the first degree in arts
and sciences for the public-school teachers.
<3 In Maseru, the chief town of Basutoland,
South Africa, there are 250 schools for
Negroes, with a total attendance of 12,175.
MUSIC AND ART.
T17 HEN Miss Kitty Cheatham gave her
song recital in the Royal Academic
High School for Music, at the invitation of
the University of Berlin, she concluded the
first part of her program with Negro
numbers—a Paul Laurence Dunbar excerpt
and some specially requested Negro songs.
<3 Mme. Lillian Nordica and the artists of
her. party, Paul Dufault, Franklin Holding
and Romayne Simmons, with whom she ap-
peared in concerts at the Hawaiian Opera
House this summer, were guests of ex-
Queen Liliuokalani, at her home in Hono-
lulu. Hawaiian airs were played by a
string quartet.
<3 On October 15 a concert was given in
Boston by the Samuel Taylor Choral
Society, Mr. Samuel Stewart, director. The
chorus, which was organized by Forrest
Whitaker, was assisted by Mr. Gerald Tay-
lor, baritone, of St. Louis; Mrs. Florence
Cole-Talbert, soprano, of Los Angeles; Mr.
Le Roy Godman, tenor, of Columbus, O.,
and Mr. Stewart, organist. The accompa-
nists were Miss Edith Quann, Mr. Lionel
Jones and Mr. Cleveland Lemons.
<3 Among the novelties heard at the Peter-
boro music festival, Peterboro, N. H., under
the direction of Mrs. MacDowell, was the
Negro rhapsody by Henry F. Gilbert, who
has before shown his interest in the Negro
idiom. This rhapsody, which is said to
have distinct musical value and to be
superior to his “comedy” overture (based
on Negro themes), both in texture of musi-
cal ideas and quality of workmanship, was
performed for the first time last June at
Norfolk, Conn.
<3 R. N. Dett, a colored Canadian, who is
teaching music at Hampton Institute, is a
composer of note. Especially notable are
two suites characteristic of Negro life: “In
the Bottoms” and “Magnolias.”
<3 Clarence Cameron White, with Mrs.
M. P. Merrill and Miss M. E. Smith, vocal-
ists, and the piano players, gave a very
successful recital at Chicago in October.
<3 A. P. Razafkeriefo, a colored youth of
New York, is a composer of merit though
little known. One of his songs, “Balti-
more,” is being sung by a Broadway star
in the “Passing Show of 1913.”
<3 Miss Ira Aldrich, daughter of the cele-
brated tragedian of the same name, is be-
coming known as a composer in England
under the nom de plume of Montague Ring.
Miss Aldrich’s “Three African Dances” were
favorites at their majesties’ ball at Buck-
ingham Palace July 23, and her “Have You
Forgotten?” waltz is becoming the usual
thing in theatre orchestras and at public
and private dances.
PERSONAL.
*X/f RS. SARAH FIELDS, of 246 Carroll
Street, North Side, Pittsburgh, Pa.,
widow of Hugh Fields, in order to secure
her husband’s pension, needs the affidavits
of two witnesses to his first wife’s burial.
The first Mrs. Fields died twenty-two years
ago at Millsboro, Va. Mrs. Fields is in
urgent need of this pension. Will readers
of The Crisis help her to secure the
evidence she needs?
Prof. Earl Finch, a prominent young
colored educator, who for the past few
years has been dean of the college depart-
ment in Wilberforce University, is dead.
62
THE CRISIS
When Professor Finch took his master’s
degree in Chicago University it is said that
he stood the second highest of anyone who
had ever studied in the university.
Robert H. Holmes, who was appointed
a policeman, is the second colored appointee
in Manhattan. He has taken up his duties
in the 2Sth precinct.
Mrs.. Agnes Smallwood, the well-known
singer of Washington, D. C., died there
October 7.
MEETINGS.
r i1 HE Kentucky State Teachers’ Associa-
*“* tion held its annual session in Louis-
ville from November 12 to 14. The colored
schools were closed on these days.
<J The Afro-American Council of Presby-
terian Churches held its twentieth annual
session in Baltimore last month.
THE CHTJROH.
r 11 HERE was a special meeting of the
A Episcopal convention, which was held
in New York last month, to discuss the
welfare of the Negro. The most important
issue discussed was the appointing of col-
ored bishops over each diocese having col-
ored members. As usual, no decision was
reached, and the question will be brought
up again at the next general meeting three
years hence. The music at this meeting
was furnished by six vested Negro choirs,
ranging from small boys to young men.
Q At the national council of Congregational
churches, which met in Kansas City, Mo.,
the last of October, a resolution was passed
appealing to President Wilson to use his
good offices against the “humiliation, op-
pression and segregation of Negro employees
under the government at Washington, D. C.”
The House of St. Michael and All
Angels in Philadelphia, in charge of the
Sisters of Saint Margaret, an order belong-
ing to the Episcopal Church, is perhaps the
only institution of its kind in the United
States. It is a home for young colored
• cripples, where they are given surgical care
and such schooling as their physical condi-
tion allows. These children either pay or
not, according to the circumstances of those
sending them, and the school is supported
by donations.
COURTS.
JUDGE E. T. WADE, of the Branch
Municipal Court of Chicago, dismissed
the case brought against the proprietor of
the Monarch Theatre for discriminating
against a colored man, Robert Anderson,
and his wife.
<2 On petition of some colored citizens- the
Pennsylvania Supreme Court has granted
to Frederick Brown, a colored man who is
charged with murdering a white man, J. T.
Durst, seven years ago in South Carolina,
an appeal from the decision of Judge
Ferguson dismissing his writ of habeas
corpus in resisting extradition to South
Carolina. It is said that Cole Blease has
expressed himself as being willing to lead
a mob to lynch Brown if he returns to his
State.
<1 When' George. W. Boyles, a colored man
accused of murder, was acquitted in the
Quarter Sessions Court No. 1, in Philadel-
phia, Assistant District Attorney Rogers
was very angry and asked Judge McMicheal
to order the jury from the box. The judge
did as he was asked, reminding the second
jury that was called that they had a duty
to perform toward the commonwealth. The
decision in the case of the colored man
stood.
<3 The Supreme Court of Mississippi has
rendered a decision upholding a statute of
that State which requires interstate rail-
roads whose trains pass through the State
to maintain separate accommodations for
white and colored passengers. This decision
was the result of a suit for damages
brought by a white woman who had been
compelled to remain in a Pullman coach in
which there were three colored men. The
jury awarded the woman a verdict of
$15,000.'
By a new law barkeepers in Pensacola,
Fla., who have separate counters for white
and colored people must buy two licenses.
<J Annie Ellis, a colored woman of Macon,
Ga., was awarded a verdict of $4,747 for
the death of her husband, who was killed by
a live electric wire.. This is said to be the
largest verdict ever given a colored person
for personal-injuries. The damages asked
were $10,000.
Q Miss May Hicks, a colored actress, went
into Joel’s Broadway restaurant, in New
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
63
York, with several white actresses, and the
proprietor refused to serve her. When the
matter was carried into court Joel was fined
$100 by Judge Nathan Oppenheimer.
THE GHETTO.
HP HIS is the law recently passed by the
A legislature of Florida and signed by
Governor Trammel, viz.:
Chapter 6490, laws of Florida, act 1913.
An act prohibiting white persons from
teaching Negroes in Negro schools, and pro-
hibiting Negro teachers from teaching white
children in white schools in the State of
Florida, and providing for the penalty
therefor.
Be it enacted by the legislature of the
State of Florida:
Section 1. From and after the passage
of this act it shall be unlawful in this
State for white teachers to teach Negroes
in Negro schools, and for Negro teachers
to teach in white schools.
Sec. 2. Any person or persons violating
the provisions of this act shall be punished
by a fine not to exceed $500, or by impris-
onment in the county jail, not exceeding six
months.
Sec. 3. This act shall take effect upon
and after its passage and approval by the
governor. .
Approved June 7, 1913.
<3 Dr. Marcus Wheatland, a well-known col-
ored physician of Newport, R. I., has been
denied a renewal of his membership in the
Vanderbilt Young Men’s Christian Associa-
tion of that city. The same organization has
refunded the membership fees of another
colored member, asking him to resign.
<3 At the eleventh annual national conven-
tion of the rural-mail carriers of Evans-
ville, Ind., it was decided that Negro dele-
gates should not be allowed to attend the
national conventions.
Q A colored girl was prevented from taking
an examination in the Polytechnic High
School in Los Angeles recently by the
mysterious disappearance of her typewriter
until the examination was over. Another
colored girl was prevented in the same way
from taking a county examination at the
courthouse.
<3 The formal organization of a North
Carolina commission on rural race problems
has been completed. It is the opinion of
the members that ‘‘some steps should be
taken to enable white communities to pro-
tect themselves from the evils of what is at
present held to be the result of the wholly
unregulated presence of white and colored
farms in the same neighborhood.”
<3 One member of the Oakland Center, of
the California Civic League, has resigned
and a general dissension is threatened be-
cause there were present at a lunch given
by this club five women from the Colored
Women’s Alameda County Center.
<3 The Birmingham (Ala.) segregation bill
has been declared unconstitutional.
<1 The indignation of the white public-school
children of Newport, O., and of their par-
ents was aroused because these children
attended a stereoptican lecture at which col-
ored children were also auditors. The
superintendent stated that this was the
result of a 'mistake and that hereafter col-
ored children would be given lectures when
no white children were present.
Q Anderson, S. C., has passed a segregation
ordinance.
Q The Kansas University football team is
complaining and attempting to refuse to
play with Nebraska because there is a col-
ored man on Nebraska’s team. So far
Nebraska has refused to change the team.
<1 A bill is now before the legislature of
North Carolina which, if enacted, will pro-
vide for the separation of white and colored
people in all the towns of that State.
<1 A private home for Negro children, oper-
ated by Mrs. Eldridge in Morgan Park,
Baltimore, has been closed by the health
authorities. The purpose of this move was
undoubtedly to discourage Negroes from
moving into this section of the city.
<J Five colored postal clerks were dismissed
in St. Louis October 16. This is said to be
the beginning of the “Negro elimination” by
the new postmaster.
<3 In Omaha, Neb., the high-school band is
composed of white and colored boys. The
white members, following the precedent
which is being established everywhere, struck
and refused to play with the colored boys.
The school board aud. faculty gave the
recreants a certain time to return in or
else be expelled. The white boys returned
and took their places in the band with the
colored boys.
64
THE CRISIS
Five colored postal clerks in Georgia
are said to have been dismissed without
trial.
Q Because substation No. 126 of the Brook-
lyn (N. Y.) postoffice had two colored
carriers whom the people are said to have
complained about, the station has been
discontinued. The station was in charge of
a Southern Democrat, H. P. Hill.
<J Two policemen and three plain-clothes men
are stationed near the house of Charles
Shipley, a colored resident of 708 Madison
Avenue, Baltimore. Shipley has received
threatening letters signed: “Committee of
Decent White Citizens Against Negro Inva-
sion.” One of the letters said that dynamite
would be used by a member of the “Black
Hand” society.
Q The colored people of Baltimore are pre-
paring to fight segregation. At the last
report they had raised $230 and were wait-
ing for the Court of Appeals to give its
detailed opinions before taking any definite
steps.
The white residents of Baltimore County
are now clamoring for the same segregation
ordinance as has been passed for the city.
Q Representative John J. Rogers, from
Massachusetts, has asked the House to in-
vestigate the alleged segregation of Negroes
in the government employ.
•I It is said that there is a movement on
foot to assign white officers to the colored
regiment of infantry in New York.
Q W. L. Delaney, the new collector of cus-
toms in Key West, Fla., has discharged the
colored officeholders under him by either
discontinuing or abolishing the offices which
they held.
<1 Frederick Anderson, a colored farmer,
who lives near Richardson, Tex., was ar-
rested by a constable and told that he was
accused of two crimes and had better plead
guilty to one, so as to be released from the
other. What these crimes were was not
specified. Anderson was fined $25 afteT
three days' detention in jail, but says that
he was not taken into a courtroom or before
a justice of the peace. While he was im-
prisoned eight bales of cotton and fifteen
loads of hay were taken from his farm.
The case has been taken before the grand
jury.
OBIME.
HT HE following lynchings have occurred
A during the past month:
At Hazlehurst, Miss., Wilson Evans, a
young colored man, charged with attacking
a white girl.
<1 At Ocala, Fla., an unknown Negro
found hanging from a tree. No other facts
are known.
At Monroe, La., Warren Eaton, accused
of making an insulting remark to a white
woman.
<1 At Madison, La., a Negro accused of
assaulting a white girl.
One Negro was killed in a race riot in
Joliet, 111., caused by the attempts of a Negro
to free a colored woman who was in prison.
Q Charles Myers, who is in prison in Jones-
boro, Ark., under a death sentence, may be
freed. The prosecuting witness, Malissa
Johns, now says that Myers did not attack
her, but that her injuries were caused by a
fall, and the other witnesses also admit
false testimony.
George Still, a white watchman on Mayo’s
bridge, Richmond, Va., who was charged
with the murder of George Washington, an
aged colored man, by a blow, has been
acquitted.
<5 Henry Williams, a colored man, was
killed by two white officers in Laurenburg,
N.	C., in a fray between the three men.
<J J. M. Wilker shot and mortally wounded
a Negro in Memphis, who brushed up
against him on the sidewalk.
<J Four men have been charged with night
riding and posting threatening letters to
Negroes in the vicinity of Jonesboro, Ark.
<J An unknown white man, with his face
blackened like a Negro, robbed a woman in
Tennessee, leaving her senseless. It hap-
pened in this case that some of the burnt
cork rubbed off, giving the police a clue
and preventing the lynching of an inno-
cent Negro.
<3 The colored citizens of El Centro, Cal.,
threaten to withdraw their patronage from
a “Jim Crow” school established in the red-
light district of that city. This school is
carried on in violation of the law, and-
Negroes cannot be forced to send their
children there.
FLORIDA BUSINESS MEN.
CALA, Fla., has 3,000 colored in-
habitants, and there are 12,000 others
in the surrounding county. This has offered
a chance for industrial co-operation. There
is a thriving sea-island cotton factory, con-
siderable exporting of moss and velvet
beans, while colored men have numerous
stores and are supporting professional men.
Recently the Metropolitan Realty and In-
vestment Company has been organized and
has erected a $20,000 building. In this a
bank with a capital of $25,000 has been
located. The president of the company,
George Giles, is a large holder of real
estate. The vice-president, Joseph L. Wiley,
is the founder of Fessenden Academy, and
the cashier, F. P. Gadson, is the owner of
the largest dry-goods and notion store
owned by a colored man in the United
States. Other directors are Dr. Williams,
a well-to-do physician, Messrs. A. S. Rich-
ardson, D. W. Goodwin, Charles Stewart,
J.	S. LaRoche, N. T. Brown and S. H.
Hadley.
S3
A PHYSICIAN.
DR. EDWARD DUNN BROWN was
born in Newbern, N. C., May 27,
1877, and died this spring in Chicago. He
was educated at the University of Penn-
BANK OF THE METROPOLITAN REALTY AND INVESTMENT CO., OCALA FLA.
66
THE
CRISIS
THE LATE DR. E. D. BROWN.
sylvania, and took his doctor’s degree from
Harvard. He settled in Chicago and be-
came an ambulance surgeon of the city
health department, but was compelled to
resign on account of color prejudice.
From that time he practised in the city
and was well thought of by his fellows and
the public.
editor-in-chief of this official organ of the
diocese.
He was married to Miss L. W. Gamble
in 1901 and they have three children.
Under ordinary7 circumstances and in an
ordinary country one would end this biog-
raphy here, simply noting that a well-
equipped man has become editor of an
influential paper. But in America to-day
we must call attention to two facts: First,
that a colored man can edit a paper; and
secondly, that no matter what a colored man'
can do he so seldom gets a chance to try
that where he does it is worth a column in
the newspaper. How wretched a situation,
and how pitiable a cause that needs such
weapons! The one damning thing in race
prejudice is the deeds it feels itself com-
pelled to do in the name of humanity.
Moreover, what goes as a matter of
course in this case might lead to riots and
lynching in others. Suppose the bishop of
this diocese had been a coward and afraid
of race prejudice? Or suppose Mr.
Williams had shirked his task and chance
for fear of offending some prejudiced white
brother? But why suppose? Let us rather
thank God that now and then things go right
even in America.
A SUCCESSFUL CLERGYMAN.
rTt HE Rev. John Albert Williams was
*** born in London, Ont., February 28,
1866. He was educated jrn the public
schools of Canada and Detroit, Mich., and
received his theological training at the Sea-
bury7 Divinity School, graduating in 1899,
and taking up his work as deacon in St.
Barnabas’ Church, Omaha, Neb.
Eventually he became priest of the
Church of St. Philip the Deacon, of Omaha,
Neb., and has remained there ever since.
In 1892 he was elected assistant secretary
of the diocese of Nebraska and has served
continuously in that office. In 1906 he was
appointed historiographer of the diocese.
hi 1910 he was made one ■’.erf the bishop’s
examining chaplains; in. 1909 he was asso-
ciate editor of The Crozier, of which
Sishop Williams was editor-in-chief. Fin-
ally in 1912, Mr. Williams was made
EEV. JOHN A. WILLIAMS.
HR




“MAMMY’S U’L BABY BOY.”
It would seem to be he still means to be President of the whole
MR. woodrow wilson.	dawning upon	country, and not merely the representative
the consciousness of the President of the of its white citizens. But the terrible fact
United States and his distinguished advisers is there that, without protest from him, the
that the 10,000,000 colored people of this hateful spirit of caste has been introduced
country cannot be wholly ignored and that into the departments to a degree never
a policy which hurts them has at least to known before, though attempted previously,
be explained. Many persons seek to show and that this does not help, but gravely
that Wilson’s anti-Negro policy is a mistake injures, the race. Perhaps later on the
of the head and not of the heart.	President may see his way clear to some
Mr. Oswald Garrison Villard, in a speech statesmanlike measure which may relieve
in Baltimore, said:	the race tension and inure to the benefit of
“I have known the present President of the nation’s colored wards. But it will have
the United States personally for approxi- to be prompt and far reaching to offset the
mately twenty years and I take this oppor- mischief and injustice already done.”
tunity to say that although I have complete The New Haven Register declares that
respect for the sincerity of his motives and Mr. Wilson “is a President with ideals, and
believe that at heart he really desires to do an apparent desire to deal fairly with all
something big and fine for	the	colored	sorts	and conditions of men in	the nation
people, yet in this segregation	matter I feel	over	which he presides. His	success in
him to be wholly wrong.	accomplishing this is erratic. Occasionally
“His philosophy is wrong, his democracy it amounts to a marked failure. Of nothing
greatly at fault. He has given us beautiful is this more conspicuously true than in his
and worthy sentiments in his book called dealing with the Negro officeholding prob-
‘The New Freedom.’ But nowhere do we lem. Mr. Roosevelt erred on the side of
find any indication that his democracy is protesting too much friendship for the
not limited, both by the sex	line	and the	Negro, and apparently lacking	in real re-
color line. He is far behind	the	times in	gard	for him. Mr. Taft made few profes-
his steadfast opposition to woman’s sions of this sort, but seems to have treated
suffrage.”	the Negro as fairly as any President in
The New York Evening Post has this recent years. Mr. Wilson started unfor-
editorial comment:	tunately by permitting Secretary Bryan to
“The whole undertaking to separate the make the needless mistakes of replacing a
races at Washington • was gratuitous, with Negro with a white man in the position of
the result that the Wilson administration minister to Hayti, a position held, and most
finds itself between two fires and certain to fittingly, by Negroes for years. He did not
alienate the colored voters in the Middle make the matter any better by losing the
Western pivotal States, wlrile Wilson him- opportunity which long precedent gave him
self appears to hat^e been faithless to his of filling the position of Register of the
pre-election promise to stand *for everything Treasury %ith a Negro,
by which I could assist in advancing the “But the most stupid arid un-American
interest of that race m the United States/ blunder was this building a fence between
We do not doubt thafc Jrfr. Wilson meant white and "Negro, tilpfcloyees in’ the Federal
those words when he uttered them,- or that • departments, pofetically called ‘segregation/
I
OPINION
69
There was no need of it. The only demand
for it was from a few persons with foolish
prejudices. The President might have dis-
regarded them, as other Presidents have
done. He has, by the action which he has
permitted, done irreparable injury to the
spirit of race harmony. For in spite of
pessimism and ignorant prejudice, right
handling will soften the lines of race pre-
judice, in time. The whites, more than the
Negroes, need right educating in this, and
the President has contributed to error. It
is unfortunate, for he is a man of justice
at heart. He seems to have been led either
by his own prejudice or that of others, into
a serious mistake for which he cannot, how-
ever, escape the responsibility.”
Senator Moses E. Clapp, speaking in
Boston, said:
“When men educated, cultured, refined,
who possess capabilities to do things, are
humiliated and struck a blow like this, they
are putting back on the black man the
bloody shackles which four years of bloody
warfare struck from his ankles.
“The American people might just as well
know to-night as not. It is not the question
of the Negro but that of the progress of
our great nation. The moment you have thor-
oughly forced into the consciousness of the
black or white man that there can be no
progress, you have laid the foundation for
class distinction. It is the very keynote of
it all.”
BALTIMORE. “F°r the third ***■ ” ^ the
New York Evening Post, “Bal-
timore has passed a segregation ordinance.
The first two were thrown out by the State
courts when taken to them by protesting
colored people. It now looks as if the
matter would have to be adjudicated by the
United States courts, for the ordinance of
yesterday was drawn in accordance with the
advice of the Court of Appeals, given when
it declared the second one unconstitutional.
This was a rather unusual procedure, and
showed clearly where the sympathies of the
court lay. In its essence the ordinance pro-
vides that no Negro shall move into a block
which has a majority of white residents, and
no white person shall buy or rent in a block
if the majority of residents are black. It
remains to be seen whether the Supreme
Court of the United States will find such a
restriction consistent with the guarantees of
the Federal Constitution. Economically, this
legislation puts iron bands on the real-estate
development of Baltimore, and will, we be-
lieve, prove irksome to whites and blacks
alike. It is utterly absurd in this day and
generation to return to -the ghetto of the
middle ages, abandoned by Europe long ago,
and it cannot now be tolerated in a com-
munity which calls itself democratic. It is
contrary to every modern ideal and aspira-
tion. Why, if it is successful, should simi-
lar legislation not be undertaken against
Jews or Slavs or Italians or any other
group in our cities?”
The full opinion of the Maryland Court
of Appeals on the former segregation act
has been handed down. It says among
other things:
“If then the legislature could pass a
statute, under the police power of the State,
providing for the segregation of the races,
as we think it could, there would seem to be
no doubt that the mayor and city council of
Baltimore can pass a valid ordinance having
the same end in view. It is true, however,
that some distinction is made between stat-
utes passed by the legislature and ordi-
nances passed by the municipality under the
police power, as the court must undoubtedly
take into consideration reasonableness of the
ordinances and determine whether any of
these are so unreasonable or oppressive that
the legislature did not intend to empower
the municipality to enact them as they
stand.”
It then goes on to discuss various diffi-
culties in drawing up a proper ordinance
and finally says:
<fWe do not understand why, in section 3,
the exception was limited to domestic serv-
ants or just how comprehensive that term
was intended to be.
“It would be difficult to include caretaker,
chauffeur or janitor in the term ‘domestic
servants/ but as the validity of the ordi-
nance is not thereby affected we will not
discuss that further.
“As the case before us does not involve
the provisions of sections 6, 7, 8 and 9 we
will not discuss them separately, or pass
upon the validity vol non of such provisions
as the delegation of power attempted by
sections 6 and 7 to property owners, etc.,
but for the reasons stated we will affirm the
judgment.”
70
THE CRISIS
Mr. Charles J. Bonaparte continues, in the
Baltimore Evening tSun, his attacks on the
segregation movement. He says in one
article:
“Those who would have the Negro inhabi-
tants of Baltimore compelled to live in
dark, dirty alleys and narrow, unhealthy
courts, and who, in general, long to keep
them, as far as possible, poor, ignorant,
vicious, criminal and diseased and a menace
to the health, morals and order of the entire
community, these people are not necessarily
and consciously wicked; they are simply
about four cepturies behind their time. They
feel toward a Negro very much as a subject
of.Ferdinand or Isabella might be expected
to feel toward a Jew or a -Moor. A dis-
tinguished cardinal, prominent in the papal
government, has been (in all probability,
very unjustly) often called ‘medieval
minded’; this description fits this first class
of ‘segregators’ to a T. The character of
their mental processes is illustrated with
almost startling vividness in one of the let-
ters sent to this paper. The author of this
communication says:
“ ‘Anyone who would advocate the mix-
ture of the white and colored people, in so
far as their living, willingly, side by side, is
concerned, is, in my opinion, little skilled
in the nature or history of mankind. Mr.
Bonaparte knows well enough that there
never was, nor is, nor ever will there be a
time when white people, as a whole, will con-
tent themselves with having as their next-
door neighbors fellow creatures who possess
Ethiopian blood.’
“It is of no great consequence that this
high authority evidently supposed ‘Ethiopian’
and ‘Negro’ to have the same meaning, and
we need not dwell on his apparent belief
that the race prejudices fostered by peculiar
features of our national history are shared
by white people all over the world; but is
it quite consistent with sanity to suggest
that a ‘mixture of the white and colored
people, in so far as their living willingly
side by side is concerned,’ is unheard of and
is incredible? Precisely such a ‘mixture’
has existed in Baltimore ever since Balti-
more has existed itself and exists to-day in
scores of localities throughout the city.
Moreover, in all parts of the South, Negroes
were for generations employed in all the
most intimate relations of life by all the
most prominent and influential white people;
Negroes nursed their children, their aged,
their sick, cooked and served their food,
cleaned and cared for their homes and min-
istered to their personal comfort in every
way possible.”
The San Francisco Chronicle preens itself
on the superiority of California race pre-
judice from the Baltimore variety:
“In Baltimore a colored family, not
alleged to be other than respectable, moved
into a house on a street which the whites
apparently desired to reserve to themselves,
and were bombarded with stones and bricks
for three hours by white men and boys.
“That such a performance could go on for
three hours without being stopped shows
just what kind of a police force they keep
in Baltimore.
“To get even, however, the Negroes assem-
bled a great crowd of their own and began
a retaliatory bombardment of the houses of
the neighboring white people.
“Baltimore must be a fine city to live in.
“And thereupon the authorities could
think of nothing else to do but to pass what
they call a ‘segregation ordinance,’ prescrib-
ing what blocks may be inhabited by
Negroes and which must be reserved for the
occupation of whites. Such an ordinance,
of course, can have no legal validity, but
public opinion may cause it to be respected.
“If the street where these outrages took
place was occupied exclusively by whites,
and especially if it is a prominent residence
street, one may concede that, knowing the
feeling, the colored family was unwise to
move in there, but they were within their
legal rights, and a respectable Negro family
is perhaps more to be respected than a
white family of the same grade, for the
Negro family has more to contend with.
“There is this to be said about San
Francisco that never in its history have acts
of mob violence been committed against
Negroes, Chinese, Japanese, Hindoos or
other alien races which go to make up our
cosmopolitan population. Individual cases
of aggression have, of course, occurred, but
they have been dealt with precisely as we
deal with breakers of the peace among
whites.
“And yet there is the same racial antag-
onism which exists elsewhere. There is in
the white race an inherent antagonism to
social intercourse with those of other races.
It does not extend to the educated and cul-
OPINION
71
tured classes of the alien races, but among
the masses it persists.
“But there are no race hatreds here. The
Negro or Asiatic is safe from mob violence
because there is no mob feeling. Persons
of any race may live anywhere in this city,
without fear of attack and with the full
assurance of the same protection that is ex-
tended to our own people. The neighbors
on a fine residence street would probably
unanimously object to having a colored
family move in, but the family would not
be disturbed. And what in this Tespect is
true of San Francisco is true of California.
“And yet San Francisco is imagined at
the East to be a hotbed of race proscription
in its most virulent form. The fact is that
in this respect it is the most decent city in
the country.”
TILLMAN’ AND
BLEASE.
“When it comes to pass that
Senator Ben. Tillman de-
nounces a man as a dema-
gogue in unmeasured terms one feels like
rubbing his eyes to know if he is awake.
Senator Tillman has a history in the line
of demagogy which is rather striking. When
he came to the Senate eighteen years ago
with his famous ‘pitchfork’ he was looked
upon with about as much interest as if he
had been the wild man from Borneo. He
lived up to his local reputation as a man
who could say bitter things, who could de-
nounce everyone and everything not to his
liking in language which reeked with vitriol
and smelled of sulphur.
“But now Governor Blease, of South
Carolina, represents the latest word—and
we wish it were the last—in demagogy and
makes Tillman seem like a reactionary. In
the last few days the latter has paid his
respects to the occupant of the chair he
mce filled in language which is picturesque
and denunciatory, but which still fails , to
paint the whole picture. It may be said
that Tillman tried his best to be a dema-
gogue in his day, but that Blease has him
beat a mile—to use the vernacular—on his
own ground.
“After all, the fundamental difference be-
tween the two men is that Tillman is a man
of education and not nearly so bad as he
tried to make himself out, while it is impos-
sible for anyone to be quite such a man as
Blease would have us think that he is. It
does not speak well for South Carolina that
her present claim to notoriety hangs on the
rival vituperation of her senior Senator and
her governor. When one thinks of the
Laurences, the Pinckneys, the Hammonds,
.Calhouns, Butlers and Hamptons it must
be admitted that, officially speaking, South
Carolina has suffered a decline. If this be
punishment for her sins it may be just
retribution, but it is a little hard on the
rest of the country.”—Philadelphia Inquirer.
MOB LAW.
The Chattanooga News has this
editorial:
“In Mississippi, Thursday, a Negro was
lynched. There is a serious doubt if he was
guilty of the crime of which the mob ac-
cused him. In South Carolina recently a
jury acquitted Will Fair, a Negro, who had
been accused of the usual crime which
lynchings follow. Fair, at the time of- the
excitement following the story of a woman
that she had been assaulted, was saved from
a mob which sought to lynch him only
through a brave stand by the officials. It
later developed that the woman’s story was
only the result of her fevered delirium. The
only excuse the mob had to suspect that
Fair had committed a crime was that he
happened to pass the house at the time the
woman was delirious from a spell of
sickness.
“The mob clamored for the speedy con-
viction of the Negro, after its futile efforts
to lynch him. The jury knew the Negro
to be innocent, yet there was the shadow
of the mob, which threatened to influence
their verdict. Knowing the Negro inno-
cent, the jury hesitated over the verdict
for twenty hours. The tremendous lesson
taught in the proving of the innocence of
the Negro after the mob had almost suc-
ceeded in lynching him was hardly greater
than that taught by the hesitation of the
jury—their evident fear of declaring the
Negro innocent in the face of the mob.
Are even the courts of justice cowed by the
blind fury of irresponsible and unthinking
mobs?
“The mob sentiment exerted such an in-
fluence over the trial of Will Fair that
South Carolina has been stirred to a great
revolt against mob violence. ‘The acquittal
of Fair should serve to put an end forever
to lynch law in the State,’ is the view taken
by the Columbia Record. But what of
72
THE CRISIS
other States which have not followed the
trial of Fair intently? What of the Mis-
sissippi mob which lynched the Negro whose
guilt was doubtful ? If he had not been
lynched would the mob shadow have influ- ,
enced the trial?
<rLynch law has always been a blot upon
the South. When the tentacles of the octo-
pus of mob rule begin to spread out and
grasp our courts, to intimidate our officers
of justice, it is time for all citizens to lend
their aid to the stamping out of this
barbarism.”
Prof. Ryntaro Nagai, writing in the
Japan magazine on “The White Peril,”
says:
“Our American friends who talk more
about freedom and equality than most other
nations have nevertheless many hard things
said of them by their own citizens in regard
to their treatment of the Indians and the
Negroes. At any rate it would be difficult
' to parallel in any country in the East such
savagery a#* the lynching and burning of
Negroes. According to the census of 1909
the Negroes of twelve Southern States made
up 40 per cent, of the population; yet out
of $32,000,000 spent in common school edu-
cation in these States only $4,000,000 went
to the education of the colored people, less
than 12% per cent, of the total. Nor are
conditions better in India, if we are to
believe the accounts given by the. English
themselves of the treatment of the natives
there.”
Dr. Frances Hoggan, of London, England,
in the Individualist, quotes the following
passage from one of her former lectures:
“All other wrongs of the present day pale
before that depth of savagery, the lynching
of Negroes. It is appalling in its revolting
horror when one reflects that it is the crime
of a nation which claims to lead the world.
No analogous development of brutality and
lust of cruelty have taken place in our
times in any nation calling itself civilized,
if we except Russia's barbarous treatment
of political prisoners and her Jewish pog-
roms or mob massacres.	* r
“There have been attempts to extenuate
this crime by asserting that it is only
assaults on women that are thus avenged;
but, unfortunately, this is not borne out by
fact, and perfectly innocent victims are
frequently offered up to the mad fury of
the mob. And even were the sufferers
guilty of the most atrocious of crimes, there
is little chance that they would escape con-
viction and punishment at the hands of the
law, if law were allowed to take its normal
course. Lynching in a wild, unsettled com-
munity may wear a semblance of justice;
in a settled, civilized country it is almost
unthinkable in its savagery and barbarism.
It lets loose the tiger in man which it has
taken so many ages to control, and it sinks
the human below the brute. What is all our
civilization, what are all our courts and
legal procedure worth if we feel constrained
to fall back at last on the most primitive
mob law, and, what is worse, defend it?
For my own part, I have often, on reading
reports of the lynching of Negroes, felt
ashamed of being a white woman, so deeply
did the racial disgrace sink into my soul.
More humiliating and degrading to the
lyncher than the lynched, this modern crime
must be uprooted, and saner methods of
dealing with crime followed, unless we are
. prepared to retrograde indefinitely into a
very hell of savagery, and to lose every
attribute of the divine in man.”
education. Florida has clandestinely en-
acted a law for driving white
teachers out of colored mission schools. The
Northwestern Christian Advocate says:
“Some weeks ago the Northwestern gave a
fairly comprehensive report of the cruel and
inhuman enactment of the Florida legisla-
ture in prohibiting whites from teaching
Negroes, the penalty being imprisonment in
case the law was not observed. That this
startling bit of legislation escaped the alert-
ness of the religious press generally is
somewhat strange, since by it Florida has
gone the limit of race prejudice and hate.
“The Michigan Christian Advocate re-
views the situation in a recent issue and
concludes that the only thing for our
freedmen's aid teachers to do is to retire
from the field and leave their colored pupils
to their fate; that to resist the law would
be unlawful and would set a bad example
before- the Negro himself.
“The Northwestern originally advocated,
and still insists, the only course to pursue
is to stand by the colored schools and con-
tinue to teach. The law was enacted in the
bitterness of race hate; it is altogether
counter to the spirit of our people, and is
OPINION
73
a violation of the constitutional rights of
9,000,000 citizens. Words can scarcely be
summoned to properly characterize the act,
and the only way it can be brought to a
definite head is to carry the matter to the
courts—the Supreme Court if necessary—
where the rights of these citizens can be
clearly understood.
“It is with the same spirit that the
'passive resisters,’ including some of the
bravest and foremost ministers of England,
have served time in jail for the cause of
educational justice, that we suggest that
our white teachers stand by their post in
this hour of persecution. One prominent
Methodist who has spent years in Florida
remarked recently that no greater boon
could come to him than the opportunity
to teach the black boys and girls of that
State in the face of such wicked legislation.
It is only by such resistance that the law
can be repealed.”
In New Orleans the colored people have
been deprived of their only chance for
public high-school education by the sale of
the Southern University. They have ap-
pealed for aid from the city, but the city
evidently thinks with this writer iii the
New Orleans States:
“I see it has been suggested that the city
buy the property of the Southern Univer-
sity for a Negro high school. I am not
informed as to the law on the subject of
providing higher education for the Negro
race, but I am opposed to Negro literary
education altogether, much less higher liter-
ary schools for that race. When the Negro
is taught book learning it disqualifies him
for the work for which he is naturally
adapted—manual labor.
“When we educate the Negro we unfit
him for usefulness. Now I am not pre-
judiced. I used to be enthusiastic on the
subject of educating everybody, Negro and
all. That was when I was much younger
than now. Observations extending over a
period of more than twenty years have
caused me to change my mind on this sub-
ject. The Negro is specially adapted to
physical activities, and in that sphere alone
will he serve himself and his country to
the . best advantage.	Observer.”
This well illustrates the attitude of the
great mass of the middle-class white
Southerners.
A correspondent of Life brings us more
light concerning conditions in Alabama:
“By the way; it may interest you to know
that there is not only being waged in the
State a campaign to do away with the leas-
ing of prisoners—virtually the selling of
them into slavery—butr also one, even more
important, for an amendment to the con-
stitution which will permit counties and
school districts to spend more than a certain
fixed sum for the education of their
children.
“It may be hard for some folks to believe
that the makers of a State constitution
would ever have thought it necessary to'
protect the people against too much educa-
tion, but they did it in this State. And
that fact goes far to explain a great many
of our shortcomings.”
THE CHURCH.
A writer in the New York
Independent declares:
“It is my deliberate judgment that if the
advancement of the American Negro, finan-
cial, educational, industrial and moral, in
his forty-odd years of effort as a freeman,
and the advancement in the ideals for him
among those who call themselves Christians,
could stand before us revealed as they must
be measured in God’s sight, the Christian
church of America would stand convicted
of a degree of prejudice, inhumanity and
cowardice for which no consideration of its
great achievements in other directions can
ever atone.”
This seems to be fully borne out by the
disgraceful exhibition of race prejudice at
the recent general convention of the Epis-
copal Church in New York City. With the
audience composed largely of educated and
well-to-do colored people two Southern
bishops gave talks that were insulting.
Familiar untruths were repeated; namely,
that the Fifteenth Amendment was the cause
of the Negroes’ condition, that the whites had
spent $165,000,000 on the Negroes’ educa-
tion, that the Negroes’ great need is “moral
training.”
The yearly congress of the church of
England had a symposium on “The King-
dom of God and the Races.” Lord Sel-
borne said that if a civilized people were
ruling a native race their duty was to con-
fer on the native race good government in
the fullest sense of the word and, above all,
government which gave every opportunity
74
THE CRISIS
of development on its own line (applause).
The white man must understand that he was
to treat the native with full justice, and no
artificial barrier should be put in the way
of the native development. He must be
given his constitutional opportunities of
voicing his grievance. “Do not think,”
added Lord Selborne, “that the native is fit
for the franchise. On the whole he is
wholly unfit for the exercise of the vote.
They are adult children—but it is a farce
and hypocrisy to pretend that the white
man in democratic government represents
the black. He cannot, and does not. The
problem, therefore, is a difficult one.” The
problem of education presented an intense
difficulty. Education should not be forced
on people who did not want it, but adequate
facilities should be given to those who did,
and while not advocating the intermingling
of the races, his lordship said no artificial
barrier should be placed in the way of the
native rising to the height which his intel-
lect and character would enable him to rise.
Though the ordinary native was unfitted for
the vote, men did emerge who were fitted
for it. How could they give that privilege?
He did not favor a technical test, adding
that a man of 30, who had shown he was
living a civilized life, should be given the
privilege of the civilized man (applause).
It was of the utmost importance that every
group of natives existing should have a
constitutional opportunity of stating their
grievances and wants in public. They
should have the right at intervals of meet-
ing the ministers for native affairs, and in
the presence of the press stating their wants
(applause). It was essential that when the
natives met the ministers the press should
be present (applause).
Sir Sidney Olivier, former governor of
Jamaica, said:
“The question in practical politics was:
Are we to discriminate in legislation on the
ground of backwardness or on the ground
of the race? He believed that Negrophobia
in race prejudice was in mixed communities
the most active source of danger. The
civilization and mbrality of the Jamaica.
Negro were not high, but he was on a
markedly different level from his grand-
father, the plantation slave, and his great-
grandfather, the African savage. Negroes
were now the equal of the white men in
fields of human function in which a hun-
dred years ago slave owners would have
confidently alleged the Negro to be incapable
of equality. The vast transplantation of
the Negro, the intercourse of white and
black, had, in fact, brought advance in
humanity to the colored people. His study
and comparison of conditions in the United
States and in the West Indies had brought
him to the belief that no solution of the
American color difficulties would be found
except by resolutely disclaiming the color
line and race differentiation theory.”
E.	D. Morrell declared that a shudder of
new emotions was passing through those
hundreds of millions of colored men from
the plains of Hindustan to the swamps and
forests of West Africa. Strange tremors,
vague ambitions and passions were stirring
them as they had never before been stirred.
The old unquestioned and unquestioning
acquiescence in the ascendancy of the white
man over the colored man as part and
parcel of the natural order of things was
disappearing where it had not already dis-
appeared. The white man had made, and
■was making, unwittingly, and but half
consciously, its return impossible. The day
was rapidly approaching, if it had not al-
ready dawned, when we could no longer base
the stability of our rule in the ultimate
resort wholly upon our superiority in
material power. There was no use in dis-
guising from ourselves that the slave spirit
is not dead in Western Europe, and that the
need of fighting it whenever or wherever it
reared its head was vital to the moral and
material interests of civilization.
The Rev. J. H. Ritson, of the British and
Foreign Bible Society, says of the church
in South Africa:
“That south of the Zambesi there are at
least six blacks to every white, while in
Natal the proportion is eleven to one. The
blacks are increasing more rapidly than the
whites, and in Natal will double themselves
in thirty-seven years. There are only a
million native Christians and the six millions
of black heathen constitute a growing peril.
These blacks are seeking education and pro-
gressing by leaps and bounds—a spirit of
individualism is taking the place of that
tribalism which has been a restraint in the
past. ‘No one ought to withhold facilities
for education—no one can ultimately with-
hold them/ said -Mr. Ritson. The idea of
the South Africa Native College was con-
11
OPINION
75
ceived seven years ago in the Cape Prov-
ince. An appeal was made for £50,000,
and large European contributions were
promised if. the natives raised one-half of
the amount, and the whole sum required
was secured. The property has already been
bought near Lovedale, but this is hardly
accessible, it is thought, for the Transvaal
natives. Efforts have been made to secure
assistance from the Union government, but
at present without success.”
the “jim	The ^ew York Evening Post
crow” car	^as an editorial on the
“Jim Crow” car which we
quote in part:
“One of the most enlightened students of
race relationships, here and elsewhere, Sir
Sydney Olivier, for five years governor of
Jamaica, spoke yesterday before the Church
of England Congress on the dangers to the
United States from race discriminations. If
they are adhered to, so the cabled report
runs, he feels that there will be danger of
civil war and rebellion. If this is to be
avoided, he says, ‘statesmen and citizens’ must
‘face in the contrary direction/ It is not a
theorist who speaks, but a trained colonial
administrator, who has governed an island
containing but 15,605 whites among 793,382
blacks. Moreover, Sir Sydney Olivier has
traveled in our Southern States for the ex-
press purpose of studying our race relations
at close range, and in more than one paper
has deprecated much that he found there,
dwelling notably upon the absence of such an
admirable black constabulary as keeps the
peace in Jamaica, and upon the many rasping
discriminations which bear down so heavily
on the American of color. As a result he
has written that ‘the color line is not a
rational line, the logic neither of words nor
facts will uphold it/
“If we should be asked what is the dis-
crimination in the South, not known in
Jamaica, which to-day is most unjust to the
colored people in their daily life, we should
be tempted to say the ‘Jim Crow’ car. For
every time the colored man would travel the
badge of inferiority is placed upon him,
unless he is. one of the few who, like Booker
Washington, can obtain accommodation in a
Pullman car. The enlightened white
Southerner is gradually beginning to realize
what this means; Dr. James H. Dillard, of
the Jeanes Fund arid Slater Fund, is, for
instance, cited as declaring: ‘If I were a
colored mai\ #tlie “Jim Crow” cars alone
would drive me out of the South’—and it is
indubitable that this institution is driving
Negroes out of the South and keeping them
out. Thus, there are.hundreds of colored
people in Washington alone who will not go
into Virginia because they will not enter the
separate coach. But the ‘Jim Crow’ car
policy is not for the moment the greatest
grievance. In the South there is no escape
from it, and it is accepted by the Negroes
there as something that has come to stay for
a long time, though eventually it must go if
the principles of Christianity are lived up to.
But aside from its injustice and discrimina-
tion, the actual conditions of travel in the
car itself are so unbearable as to call forth
the bitterest complaints, which go unheeded
because the Negro has no vote and the
superior race is too superior to listen to
fault-finding from blacks. •	*	•
“We are aware, of course, that the mere
proposal to abolish the ‘Jim Crow’ car at
present provokes a storm of anger, just as
we know that the presence in white cars of
the lowest element of the Negroes does mean
hardship for refined white passengers, pre-
cisely as refined colored passengers suffer
from overbearing white boors who enter
their coach. But is there no way out? Is
there not any constructive suggestion to
offer? We have one which, it seems to us, is
at least worth discussing. It is the adoption
of the foreign system of cars of varying
classes and rates of fare. We practically
have two classes now, the Pullman and the
‘day coach/ In Europe they have ‘unwashed’
peasants to deal with, but they are almost
never found in the first or second-class
carriages. They pay third and fourth-class
rates and .receive decent and clean accommo-
dations. Is it impossible to adapt this system
to our Southern railroads? It would do
away with discrimination, while the presence
in every class of white men with votes would
prevent the existing intolerable violation of
law. At least, as Sir Sydney says of the
whole question, a solution along this line
would be traveling the 'only road which leads
to civil peace.”
a
DEMOCRACY AND
DISCRIMINATION.
democracy.
The Chicago Tribune and
the Greenville (S. C.)
News are debating
“Rare discrimination is foreign
76
THE CRISIS
to the great mass of intelligent Americans/’
says the Tribune. “The race prejudice
fostered by the proprietors of certain hotels
and restaurants is fostered for business
reasons only. It is done to please a com-
paratively small class. While there are signs
of increase in discrimination against the
Negro in the North here and there, these do
not indicate a tendency. Race prejudice can-
not gain headway against the stream of
intelligence or overcome the fusion of our
common life.”
To this the News replies and incidentally
gives up “practical” democracy:
“This is a strange utterance to the South.
The chief thing wrong with the view ex-
pressed is that it is wrong in its conclusions
as to the antidote for prejudice during the
present day. Does the Tribune want race
amalgamation ? If not, why begin on a basis
of no discrimination? Prejudice, per se, is
of course inimical, but the best way to keep
down such prejudice is to keep the races as
distinct and separate as possible. Such a
course is better for the Negro and better for
the white man. This is not a day of ‘nigger
hating,’ but is a day when men take a sane
view of a great and unsolved problem, and
then conclude that it is best to keep the races
separate as far as possible. Prejudice in-
variably follows a contact of the races on
any but a business basis. Theoretically, of
course, this is not pure democracy, but in
this day pure democracy will work only in
theory and not in practice.”
Two New Orleans papers thus view the
new civil-rights bill in New York. The
Times-Democrat says:
“As the former statute was .evaded or
ignored whenever and wherever the proprie-
tors of hotels, restaurants, theatres and other
establishments affected saw fit to. draw the
color line, we may be reasonably, confident
of the latter’s ability to get around the new
one. Doubtless it will produce no end of
litigation at the beginning—helping to line
the pockets of a certain class of lawyers at
the Negro equality-seekers’ expense. But the
statute’s unpopularity, plus the ingenuity of
the business men who believe in the color line,
ought to make its enforcement extremely
difficult, if not impossible. Not only so, but
the ambitious Negroes’ last case is likely to
be worse than their first from their own view-
point. Their attempts to enforce racial social
equality have stimulated race hatreds and
produced friction throughout the Northern
States. The intolerable conditions at which
they aim are not to be established by legisla-
tive fiat, either. Every new undertaking of
the sort is bound, we believe, to quicken race
antipathies in the North and so to hasten the
correct national adjustment of race relations
by means of a color line rigidly drawn.”
The Picayune says:
“That this law expresses the wishes and
feelings of the people of the State of New
York is plain or it would not have been
enacted, and, although there are many people
in the Empire State who do not favor it, they
are in a minority and are not represented in
the public affairs of the State. Hereafter
visitors to the metropolis from the Southern
States are likely to encounter, more or less
frequently, unpleasant, incidents, but as they
will only be the result of circumstances which
they cannot prevent, it will be well to accept
them with the best grace possible.”
B
For gymnastics in reason-
SOME SOUTHERN ^ commend us to the
L0QIC*	editor of the Macon Tele-
graph. He believes in democracy and he is
preaching the right of suffrage, but the
eternal black man pops up here and there
and plays sad havoc with his arguments.
Listen to this, for instance:
“If the object of government is the pro-
tection of the weak, as we are told by all
the sages and sociologists, then to make that
protection full, and as complete as possible,
the weak should be permitted to have a
voice at least at the polls.”
Sounds good, doesn’t it? One could
hardly ask anything better. Now read this:
“The right of franchise, for instance, is a
normal human right among men. To cheat
men of that right intimidation is sometimes
resorted to, but more often indirect devices
are employed. In America—in a white
man’s country—a white man has the same
right to vote that he has to live. The ‘six
months before’ requirement for poll taxes,
the ‘Australian ballot’ system and other
devices are aimed at the poor and illiterate
white man.”
After that cold plunge ascend to Heaven
with this fine flourish :
“Let us adhere to the fundamentals of
the laws of the Creator. He made all men
for equal opportunity and equal happiness.
OPINION
77
The fall of man rather upset things, but the
original principles and designs are the same
so far as men in freedom can be drawn in
line with them. With the fall came craft,
and craft is about the worst of evils,
because it is for the most part hidden. A
hidden or interior evil (of the mind and
thought and intention) is hard to eradicate
by the individual in himself, and harder to
fend against by another because of its very
character!
“Innately, therefore, men are, and ought
to he, equal; at least when you look above
the criminal classes, the human averages
pretty well”
Now descend into hell:
“Let us preface by saying that under our
law all white men who have qualified by
registering are entitled to vote, and no de-
vice ought to be permitted which will cheat
them out of that right. It ought to be
made easy and not hard for an honest man
to vote his convictions.”
Finally, after dizzily recovering your bal-
ance, read this good old Southern stuff:
“The women of the Southern suffragette
leagues are acting on the supposition that
the Negro women, like the Negro men at
present, can be virtually denied the ballot.
They forget that the present situation as
regards the Negro men required fifty years
to be worked out; that it is at best but
temporary, and that the more 1 progressive’
we become the more difficult will be the
task of maintaining the existing status.
They forget that the popular trend is con-
tinually and more and more away from
independent State action, and that already
we are threatened with the abolition of
State lines in national elections.
“When the ballot is conferred on women
by ah amendment to the Federal Constitu-
tion the number of the disfranchised
Negroes in the South will be doubled.
When the cry of that doubled element of
the disfranchised reaches the women of the
North and West, who are in the saddle for
the 'rights’ of their sex, no ingenuity on the
part of Southern man or woman can pos-
sibly invent a scheme whereby the present
status can be successfully maintained. For
the South’s problem there will then be no
solution.”
Wherefore we beg to conclude that the
editor of the Macon Telegraph is certainly
some logician.
THE NEGRO Th® N<SW Y°rk Evenin9 JOUT-
IN EGYPT. ”ai
“The giggling shopgirls whose
life of misery is still a joke to them—
blessed youth!—should interest you deeply.
And the Negro, too, with a tired black face,
resting for the next day’s slavery—slavery
on a wage basis, but slavery all the same.
Possibly you despise his thick lips. But
those lips are carved on every sphinx in
Egypt’s sand, and if you could go back far
enough you would find the ancestors of that
Negro, before the days of the Pharaohs,
laying the foundations of your religion and
locating the stars in heaven. At that time
your forbears were gibbering cave savages,
sharpening bones and gnawing raw flesh.
When you see the Negro on the opposite
seat, the ill-starred one who has gone down
in the human race, while we have gone up,
think about him, study him, speculate as to
his ultimate end—and your own. Don’t
merely say to yourself: 'That’s a plain
Negro,’ and go on chewing gum.”
Town Topics says:
“Well worth a visit is the Negro exposi-
tion in commemoration of the fiftieth anni-
versary of the signing of the emancipation*,
proclamation. Specimens of Negro handier
crafts, from the time of the ancient Egyp-
tians—whom some Negroes claim as
ancestors—down to the present, are ex-,
hibited, and demonstrate the improvement,
of the race. The exposition has a special
interest, because the commencement of am
anti-Negro movement is observable through^*
out the whole country, and even in Europe,
where color has hitherto been no barrier!'
During the Civil War the Negroes won the>
high commendation: 'Our colored troop®
fought nobly.’ Since the emancipation
proclamation their conduct, North and
South, has been most exemplary. Very few
of them have tried to intrude themselves
where they were not wanted, and these few
have been misled by white men, who con-
spired to use them for political purposes. I
reason, therefore, that the feeling against
them is only the survival of an old preju-
dice, fomented by wicked agitators, which
can be lived down by their prevailing char-
acteristics of industry and education. The
Negro exposition is a notable display of
their achievements.”
TEC£ NATIONAL EMANCIPATION EXPOSITION IN NEW YORK CITY: THE TEMPLE OF BEAUTY IN THE GREAT COURT OF FREEDOM.
*
THE HISTORICAL PAGEANT OF THE NEGRO RACE AT THE EMANCIPATION EXPOSITION: FORTY MAIDENS DANCE BEFORE THE ENTHRONED
PHARAOH RA, THE NEGRO.
EDITORIAL
/ f • g

{The {Three XiXntse fIDen
HE comet was blazing down from the sky on the midnight
before Christmas. Three songs were dying away in the
East: one from the rich and ornate chapel of the great
cathedral on the hills beyond 110th Street—a song of beauty
and exquisite ‘finish but coldly and formally sung. Another,
a chant from the dim synagogue on the lower East Side—
heavy with droning and passionate; the last from West 53d
Street—a minor wail of utter melody. The songs had died away and the
three priests, looking at the midnight sky, saw the comet at the same
moment. The priest in the ornate chapel, gowned in his silken vestments,
paused and stared wonderingly at the star; it seemed drawing near to him
and guiding him. Almost vbefore he knew it he had thrown a rich fur cloak
about himself and was whirling downtown in a taxicab, watching the star
with fascinated gaze. The rabbi on the lower East Side no sooner saw that
blaze in the heavens than a low cry of joy left his lips and he followed
swiftly, boarding a passing Grand Street car and changing up Broadway; he
hung on the footboard to watch unmindful of the gibes at his white beard
and Jewish gabardine. The old black preacher of 53d Street, with sad and
wrinkled face, looked at the moving star thoughtfully and walked slowly with
it. So the three men threaded the maize of the Christmas-mad streets,
neither looking on the surging crowds nor listening to the shouts of the
people, but seeing only the star. The “honk, honk” of the priest’s taxicab
warned the black priest scarcely too soon, and he staggered with difficulty
aside as it whizzed by and made the motorman of the car, which bore the
Jew, swear at the carelessness of the chauffeur. One flew, the other whirred
swiftly and the third walked slowly; yet because of their differing ways
they all came to the steps of the great apartment house at the same moment,
and they bowed gravely to each other, yet not without curiosity, as each
ascended the steps. The porter was strangely deferential and they rose
swiftly to the seventh floor, where a wide hall door flew silently open.
Within and before the wide log fire of the drawing room sat a woman.
She was tall and shapely and well gowned. She sat alone. The guests had
gone an hour since and the last footsteps of the servants were echoing
EDITORIAL
81
4^
above; yet she sat there weary, still gazing into the mystery of the fire. A
She had seen many Christmas Eves and they were growing all to be alike— A.
wretchedly alike. All equally lonely, aimless—almost artificial. She arose j*.
once and walked to the window, sweeping aside the heavy curtains, and the
brilliancy of the star blazed in upon her. She looked upon it with a start. j£
She remembered how once long, long years ago she had looked upon stars
and such things as very real and shining fingers of fate. She remembered
especially on a night like this how some such star had told her future.
How out of her soul wonderful things were to be born, and she had said
unto the star: “How shall this be?” And something had answered: “That
holy thing that shall be born of you shall be called the Son of God.” And
then she had cried in all her maiden faith and mystery: “Behold the hand-
maiden of the Lord, be it according to thy word.” And the angel departed
from her, and it never came back again. Here she was reaching the portals of
middle age with no prospects and few ambitions; to live and wait and sleep;
to work a soulless work, to eat in some great manger like this—that was
the life that seemed stretching before her endless and without change, until
the End and the Change of Changing. And yet she had dreamed such
dreams and fancied such fair destiny! As she thought of these dreams
to-night a tear gathered and wandered down her face. It was then that she
became suddenly aware of two men standing on either side of her, and she
felt, but did not see, a third man, who stood behind. But for the soft voice
of the first speaker she would have sprung up in alarm, but he was an old
man and deferential with soft ascetic Jewish face, with white-forked beard
and gabardine, and he bowed in deep humility as he spoke, saying:
“Where is He that is bom King of the Jews, for we have seen His star
in the East, and have come to worship Him?”
The other surpliced figure, who stood upon her right hand, said the same
thing, only less:
“Where is He who is bom King, for we have seen His star in the East,
and have come to worship Him?” And scarcely had his voice ceased than
the strong low rolling of another voice came from behind, saying:
“Where is He, for we have seen His star in the East, and have come to
worship Him?”
She sank back in her chair and smiled. There was evidently some
mistake, and she said to the Jew courteously:
“There is no King here.”
“But,” said the Jew, eagerly, tremulously, “it is a child we seek, and the
star has guided us hither; we have brought gifts of gold and frankincense
and myrrh.” Still the woman shook her head.
“Children are not allowed in these apartments,” she said, “and besides,
I am unwed.”
The face of the Jew grew radiant.
“The Scriptures say He shall be bom of a Virgin,” he chanted. But the
woman smiled bitterly.
“The children of Virgins are not welcome in the twentieth century, even
though they be Sons of God I”

THE CRISIS

“And in a manger/’ continued the Jew.
“This is, indeed, a manger,” laughed the woman, “but He is not here—
He is not here—only—cattle feed here.”
Then the silk-robed priest on the left interrupted:
“You do not understand,” he said, “it is not a child of the body we
seek, but of the Word. The Word which was with God and the Word which
was God. We seek the illuminating truth which shall settle all our wild
gropings and bring light to this blind world.” But the woman laughed even
more bitterly.
“I was foolish enough once to think,” she said, “that out of my brain
would 'leap some wondrous illuminating word which should give light and
warmth to the world, but nothing has been born, save here and there an
epigram and the smartness of a phrase. No, He is not here.”
The surpliced priest drew back with disappointed mien, and then sud-
denly, in the face of priest and Jew, as they turned toward the unseen figure
at her back, she saw the birth of new and wonderful comprehension—Jew
and Gentile sank to their knees—and she heard a soft and mighty voice that
came up out of the shadows behind her as she bent forward, almost crouch-
ing, and it said:
“Him whom we seek is child neither of thy body nor of thy brain, but
of thy heart. Strong Son of God, immortal love. We seek not the king of
the world nor the light of the world, but the love of the world, and of all
men, for all men; and lo! this thou bearest beneath thy heart, O woman of
mankind. This night it shall be born!”
Slowly her heart rose and surged within her as she struggled to her
feet; a wonderful revelation lighted in her whirling brain. She, of all
women; she, the chosen one—the bride of Almighty God; her lips babbled
noiselessly searching for that old and saintly hymn: “My soul doth magnify
the Lord, and my spirit hath rejoiced in God, my saviour. For he hath
regarded the low estate of his hand-maiden, for behold! from henceforth
all generations shall call me blessed.” A great new strength gripped her
limbs. Slowly she arose, and as she rose, the roof rose silently with her—
the walls of the vast room widened—the cold wet pavement touched her
satined feet, and the pale-blue brilliance of the star rained on her coiled hair
and naked shoulders. The shouting, careless, noisy midnight crowds surged
by and brushed her gown. Slowly she turned herself, with strange new
gladness in her heart, and the last words of the hymn on her lips: “He
hath put down the Mighty from their seats and hath exalted them of low
degree; he hath filled the hungry with good things and the rich he hath
sent empty away.” She turned, and lo! before her stood that third figure,
an old, bent black man, sad faced and pitiful, and yet with brilliant caverned
eyes and mighty wings that curved to Heaven. And suddenly^ there was with
the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God and saying:
“Glory to God in the highest; and on earth peace, good will toward
men.”

SELAH!

EDITORIAL
83
FROM A LAYMAN.
IR: I am looking forward
to some comment by you
in the next number of
The Crisis in re
the Episcopal Church
convention in its deal-
ings toward the Negro. Were it not
too well known that that church was the
bulwark of slavery, and always has been
the mainstay of prejudice, it might have
been amazing to behold the hypocrisy
and bigotry displayed by these “minis-
ters of the Gospel.” Evidently the
Southern bishops could not divorce
from their minds the Southern maxim:
“Keep the Nigger down.”
Yours truly,
E. L. Cross.
M
THE EPISCOPAL CHURCH.
N the red blood-guilti-
ness of the Christian
church in America
toward black folk the
Episcopal Church has
undoubtedly larger share
than any other group. It was the
Episcopal Church that for 250 years
made itself the center and bulwark of
man stealing and chattel slavery. It
was the Episcopal Church that deliber-
ately closed its doors in the face of the
praying slave; it was the Episcopal
Church that refused after the war to
educate the freedmen, and is still re-
fusing, and it is only on the rostrum of
the Episcopal Church that such reac-
tionary heathenism could find welcome
expression as was uttered by the bishops
of Georgia and Tennessee at the last
general convention.
The setting was characteristic. In the
Cathedral of St. John the Divine were
gathered 1,000 persons, three-fourths of
whom represented the emancipated and
risen race whom the church for two
centuries had insulted and spit upon.
They were quiet, well bred and earnest
people, long suffering and self-sacrific-
ing. They did not complain when the
obsequious ushers pushed them to the
rear and carried forward the snobs and
pretenders—the smug-faced hypocrites
who are making the Episcopal Church
in America a hissing in the ears of
righteous men.
The dark hundreds sat down quietly
and listened to—what? To a political
screed, to lies that sounded deliberate,
and to a wretched carping bitterness
which disgraced the anointed prelates
who thus fumed and cursed God and
insulted their helpless auditors.
It is NOT true that the Fifteenth
Amendment is the cause of the problems
arising from the presence of the Negro
race in America, and no student of
American history with an ounce of sense
or honesty would affirm this. As a mat-
ter of fact it was only the ballot of
reconstruction times that kept the freed-
men from re-enslavement.
There is not the slightest evidence
that the South has spent $165,000,000
for Negro education, and yet this ven-
erable lie, started in the senility of the
late Commissioner Harris, was paraded
again to salve the conscience of the
guilty South.
The Atlanta University conference
did NOT affirm the unmorality of most
Negro preachers. It affirmed just the
opposite, and the bishop of Tennessee
made statements which sounded like
deliberate falsification of the facts when
he twisted a partial quotation out of its
context to serve his own ends.
The American Negro does NOT stand
in unusual need of moral training. It
is the American white man who needs
that. The American white man, and
especially the white man of the South,
is a thief and a libertine to a greater
extent than the Negro ever was or ever
will be, and it is an impudent thing to
preach regeneration to the helpless vic-
tims of slavery and lust and stealing.
Why should the Episcopal Church in
the day of its dotage thus elaborately
set the stage to advertise Southern re-
84
THE CRISIS
actionaries ? Why should it thrust
forward Nelson and Gailor and leave
in the background Dillard, Weatherby,
Bishop and Peabody? Is not this but
one of many signs which show that this
great institution is the church of John
Pierpont Morgan and not the church of
Jesus Christ?
segregationist is the last scream of
beaten prejudice. After that American
civilization will be compelled through
long centuries to tear down the walls
which they are now building around
the finest and most gifted single group
in its polyglot population.
THE STRENGTH OF SEGREGATION.
HEN the American people
in their carelessness and
impudence have finally
succeeded in welding
10,000,000 American
Negroes into one great
self-conscious and self-acting mass they
will realize their mistake.
At present it is still possible to make
Negroes essentially Americans with
American ideals and instincts. In an-
other generation, however, at the pres-
ent rate we will have in this country a
mass of people of colored blood acting
together like one great fist for their
own ends, with secret understanding,
with pitiless efficiency and with re-
sources for defense which will make
their freedom incapable of attack from
without.
The actual organization of this group
is progressing by leaps and bounds. It
needs now but to be knit together into
one great unity. This can be done—it
is being done. Those who advise “race
pride1’ and “self-reliance” do not real-
ize the Frankenstein which they are
evoking. The Negro cannot be beaten
in this line by any present methods.
The physical intimidation of lynching
cannot be kept up; the economic intimi-
dation of exclusion from work cannot,
with the present organization of Negro
industry, be kept up after ten years.
Continual social insult is powerless
against those who refuse to be insulted.
After this—what? What can America
do against a mass of people who move
through their world but are not of it
and stand as one unshaken group in
their battle? Nothing. The yell of the
THE EXPOSITION.
HE New York emancipa-
tion exposition which
took place in New York
during the last ten days
in October was perhaps
the largest single cele-
bration which colored people have had
in the North. The total attendance was
over 30,000; the order was perfect; not
a single arrest was made and there were
no serious. accidents.
But the exposition was not simply an
assembling of crowds. It was an organ-
ized, logic&l affair. There were com-
paratively few exhibits, but each exhibit
was in its place and meant something,
and when combined with photographs
and charts told a continuous and com-
plete story of fifty years unusual prog-
ress among colored Americans. To this
was added a series of entertainments.
But greatest of all was the historical
pageant. It became, as it was designed
to be, a great popular festival with 350
actors living their parts. Its imagery
and beauty have been seldom surpassed,
and Mr. Charles Burroughs and his
helpers deserve all praise in their
signal success.
When one remembers under what ex-
traordinary difficulties the nine com-
missioners organized this exposition,
and what a fire of indefensible criticism
they underwent, the exposition must go
down in history not simply as the
greatest of the attempts to celebrate the
jubilee of freedom up to this time, but
.also as a singularly successful effort in
honest administration and widespread
co-operation.
^p^p^p^p^p^^p^Tp^p*
A MAN THEY DIDN’T KNOW
A STORY
By JAMES D. CORROTHERS' -
(In Two Parts—PART I)
'^^^y\p\p\p\p\p\p^'^?y^?y\p\p^p\p\prip^p^p<hp^ip^ip^p\p ^p\p^p^p\p^ip
HE opposition was right.
President Nefferman had
blundered. In fact, he had
not understood the situa-
tion at all. Now the people
realized this. A crisis was
at hand. War seemed in-
evitable. An appalled and anxious nation
looked for a way out—with honor.
Yet, at the beginning of all this, Presi-
dent Nefferman had laughed, flouting all
thought of serious possibilities. The chief
mouthpiece of the opposition, stung to hys-
teria by the president's bungling, mercilessly
assailed him, urging his immediate impeach-
ment, and stood not upon the order of its
flaming and virulent denunciation. Bris-
tling invective, scathing rebuke, scourgings
and knoutings, it volleyed and showered upon
him in the fury of its wrath. Perhaps this
great paper, a veritable “thunderer” among
its kind, was most dangerous to the inter-
ests of the president and his friends when
it condescended to ridicule, and malignantly
played the fierce light of its derision upon
the pitiful man. Again and again it shouted:
“Nefferman laughed 1”
“Laughed in the face of this black and
ominous storm, thick-belching from the
noxious shores of hell! Laughed and could
not be made to understand the oncoming,
dreadful thing. He laughed, actually
laughed! And all the mountebanks, mimes,
grafters and money bags of his senile ad-
ministration laughed with him, in unison.
They had made 'theirs' and were content.
So doubtless, too, was poor, fat-witted
Nefferman. He laughed until his own
private money bags rumbled and burst and
laughed. This was caught up and echoed
by the money bags of the protected 'inter-
ests.' It became the laugh of millions, as
if every bag had a golden mouth, and all
the bags had burst. But from the tor-
mented, seething populace it evoked no
merriment; awoke no answer; provoked no
response but malediction. To the anxious,
fearing people the fearful levity of Neffer-
man and his friends was as mocking and
hateful as the bacchanalia of devils who lead
the doomed to hell, among echoing rocks,
and beside murmurous rivers of pitch.
“But it was all very funny to Nefferman.
His lazy brain reported: All is well. He
laughed—amid these flashings from Sheol!
He actually threw back his beefy, Midas-
eared head; wrinkled his butcher-hued face
in complacent, Neffermanian smiles; opened
his big mouth wide, and—laughed! Had it
not been for a little isthmus at the back of
his neck the whole top of his head would
have been an island.
“Dolt!
“Already the Orientals, through their
secret treaties with Mexico, were at the
beginning of things. The American con-
sulate in Mexico City had been damaged;
several Americans in Mexico had been im-
prisoned, tortured and killed; shots, always
'random shots,' had been fired across the
border into the United States, wounding
our citizens and destroying property;
American soldiers had been hit, and skirm-
ishes were frequent until forbidden by the
American government. Then began the
desertions of our Negro soldiers to Mexican
ranks. There these trained men, of a race
never before disloyal to their land or flag,
manned the machine guns for the 'Mexi-
cans,' and sent vindictive volleys crashing
back into American homes and towns.
" 'Mere straws I1 observed Nefferman, not
realizing that 'straws' tell which way the
winds blow.
“Next came the California fland law'
movement, against which Japan formally
protested to this government—her only
open move.
86
THE CRISIS
“Then came the remarkable *votes for
Negroesf justice NOW!9 movement of the
blacks throughout the country. Great mass
meetings and restless bands of men and
women, with black, agonized faces, march-
ing through our cities and from town to
town.
“Again Nefferman laughed!
“ ‘Mere imitation !’ he reassured us.
‘Sambo and Topsy,’ he explained, ‘trying to
mimic the English suffragettes. That is—
all but the “hunger strike.” Ha! ha! Sambo
loves his po’k chops too well for that!'
“Still Nefferman laughed!
“But now ‘a change came o’er the spirit
of his dream.’ Ten American soldiers and
three citizens were shot on American soil
during a raid by Mexican rebels. Six of
those wounded died. The American govern-
ment demanded from Mexico proper repa-
ration and apology. This the Mexican
government seemed reluctant to grant, dis-
claiming federal responsibility, and claim-
ing also that the rebels were assisted by
American adventurers and mercenaries.
Upon this some American State troops and
a few regulars surreptitiously plunged over
the Mexican border by night and captured
the entire rebel band, of necessity shooting
a few in the drastic transaction. All Mexico
is flaming white hot over the ‘outrage.’
War may be declared upon us at any
moment, and united Mexico, backed by her
cunning and powerful ally, will bristle to
the assault.
“Now Nefferman’s levity subsided, and a
look of determination clouded his Napole-
onic brow. His pride was aroused. He
would end this thing at once, and decisively.
“But now came the-second greater shock:
The ‘peaceful’ revolution of Hawaii, voted
in by 20,000 Hawaiian-born Japanese
youths, real ‘American citizens,’ who had a
right to vote, and who, together with cer-
tain renegade whites and a wholesale im-
portation of Negroes, formed a new political
balance of power in the islands, thus as-
suring the success of their audacious plot.
It is anticipated that the next move will be
annexation to Japan. A Hawaiian republic
can hardly stand alone. Americans are
leaving the islands.
“The government at Washington, beyond
furnishing transports for the departing
Americans, has done little other than to
demand that the authority of the United
States be recognized, as heretofore. It is
asserted that the Atlantic fleet may be
ordered to the scene to enforce our de-
mands. Meanwhile, it is rumored that a
dozen Japanese cruisers are already secreted
in secluded Hawaiian waters awaiting the
attack of the American squadron. There
is, however, no confirmation of this report.
“Nefferman is not laughing now!
“Later:	A most disquieting report
reaches us to the effect that Charles H.
Bowden, the American aviator, soaring
over the supposedly unfrequented waters of
the lower California gulf, on Friday, made
the startling discovery of a secret Japanese
coaling station situated on a quiet bay. Some
cruisers of lighter draft were hiding nearby.
There appeared to be great activity on board.
“Ft. Bayard, N. M., April 18.—Nearly
half a company of United States colored
troops stationed here deserted to the enemy
when ordered to prepare for action against
the Mexicans. Disloyalty is spreading
among the Negro troops. Further deser-
tions seem imminent. The yellow peril is
upon us. Behind all that has happened
may now be discerned the hand of the
plotting East.
“Chicago, April 19.—At a mass meeting
held here last night more than 2,000
Negroes, among whom were some of the
leading colored people of this city, passed
resolutions demanding ‘votes for Negroes,’
and ‘the immediate cessation of lynching in
the United States.’ The Negroes declared
they would not bear arms in the impending
conflict unless the national government took
steps for their relief. Similar meetings
were held in Detroit, Cincinnati and St.
Louis. The Negroes asserted that meetings
of like nature will take place soon in other
leading cities, especially in the East and
Northwest. The leaders of last night’s
meeting were arrested, but the disaffection
continues to spread. It is a grave and
alarming state of affairs. Severe punish-
ment of the leaders will only inflame the
blacks. Something must be done to win the
Negroes over.”
A tall, athletic, sun-browned man, emerg-
ing from a field of rustling corn, received
a letter from the rural postman. It was
noon. The dinner bell at the farmhouse had
rung, and thither, letter in hand, the man
started with swinging strides. The letter
A MAN THEY DIDN’T KNOW
87
had originally been sent to X-------, Mass.
After repeated forwarding, it had finally
reached him in Eastern Pennsylvania. It
was from the President of the United
States, and was as follows:
The Rev. Grant Noble,
Pastor Baptist Church,
X-----, Mass.
Rev. Sir:
In the present crisis, which threatens to
become a national calamity, it is deemed
advisable for the President to call together
some of the representative men of your race
with whom he may take counsel concerning
the unprecedented attitude which colored
citizens are assuming toward the national
government. Your name was suggested by
a gentleman from Massachusetts as that of
a sagacious and resourceful man of unusual
attainments and character. It is to such
men as yourself that the President turns
in this our country’s hour of need. No
other President of the United States has
had such a problem on his hands. Will you
not meet with the President in Washington
on the evening of April 21, at S o’clock?
The expense of the trip will be met. No
publication of this matter should be made
at present. Sincerely yours,
Rodney Morris.
Secretary to President Martin Carlos
Nefferman.
Grant Noble decided to go, though it
might involve for him no small sacrifice.
In a few words he set forth the matter
before the good German folk for whom he
worked, and with whom he and his little
son enjoyed one of the pleasantest homes
in which they had found shelter, on their
gradual journey westward, since his unfor-
tunate losses in Massachusetts.
“Chess,” assented the good farmer, a
staunch Nefferman man, “dot vill pe alright.
Go unt dalk mit him all vat he vants. Unt
der chob, unt der liddle, mudderless poy vill
pe here alright, ven pack you come.”
That night Grant Noble was in Washing-
ton, and, a few minutes after 8, was shown
into the President’s office. Three other col-
ored men, all strangers to him, were already
waiting. At nearly 9 o’clock another col-
ored man, a bishop of pompous mien, was
ushered in. Out of fifty who were asked
to come but five were present.
The President, burdened and worn,
though not precisely upon the minute, came
promptly, without the slightest hint of
ceremony, and, arrogating to himself no air
of Saxon superiority, got immediately to
business.
“Gentlemen,” he said, “T want your help,
and your sympathy. I know your race has
been abused; I know we have lost its con-
fidence. Can it be restoredf”
The prelate, to whom all deferred, spoke
first—a set speech, and an old one—
grandiloquent; vain, he threw no light upon
the subject. Plainly, his sole desire was to
“show off”—to get advertised. He had not
the intelligence nor sense to know that he
had failed. And upon the impenetrable
face of Nefferman there was no sign.
One after one, three other Negroes spoke,
and in their talk that long telegraph pole
of a capital letter “I” was indubitably
apparent. Evidently each thought that he
could lead his race back to loyalty—and
whithersoever he chose.
“Do you not think, gentlemen, that Dr.
Packer T. Jefferson would be the proper
leader to carry through any plans upon
which we might decide?” asked the President.
It was Grant Noble who answered.
“There is just one man,” he declared,
“who can prevail with my people now.
That man is not Dr. Jefferson. They would
follow Dr. Jefferson through life, to prog-
ress and success, but I doubt if Mr. Jeffer-
son himself would presume that he could
lead them into death. That requires a war-
rior soul! There is one mighty black man
whom my people would follow into death.
That man is Jed Blackburn, the discredited
Negro boxer. I am aware of his mistakes
and of his limitations. I know he is in
great disfavor. But, if you would win
back the American Negro, get this man into
action. He is lion hearted and patriotic.”
“Do you know this man personally?”
“Yes, slightly.”
“If this plan is decided upon,” asked the
President, “would you be willing to under-
take its negotiation?”
“I think so, sir.”
“And what boon would you offer him—
what reward?”
“Redemption, through the battlefield; a
patriot’s bright glory, perhaps a patriot’s
death, but—REDEMPTION.”
(To be concluded in the January Crisis.)
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT
OF COLORED PEOPLE

HE National Association for the Advancement of Colored People
is the new abolition society. It has twenty branches, ranging
from New York to Washington and from Boston to San Fran-
cisco and Tacoma. It has the machinery to fight discrimination,
and everywhere it is making that fight—against segregation in
Baltimore and other cities, against segregation in work in the
, United States government departments, against “grandfather’’
laws and “Jim Crow” laws before the Supreme Court of the United States.
Its branches are holding meetings of protest, its officers and directors are
volunteering as speakers.
Its chairman, in spite of the fact that he has been for twenty years a
friend of Mr. Wilson, and has warmly supported the present administration,
personally and through his paper has taken a most aggressive stand in denun-
ciation of the undemocratic policy of segregation which is being inaugurated
in Washington. He has interviewed members of the Cabinet and the President
himself. He has addressed large meetings of protest in Baltimore and Wash-
ington and is now preparing an article for one of the leading magazines.
The association sent an investigator to visit the departments in Wash-
ington where segregation was said to be in force. This report was released
to the Associated Press and to other news services on November 17, when it
was also sent to 500 newspapers, fifty religious papers, to magazine editors, to
members of Congress, to ministers and to many others. Copies may be
obtained free of charge by applying to the National Association.
Cases affecting the colored people now before the Supreme Court of the
United States may decide the legal and political status of the Negro for years
to come. The National Association is the only organization appearing for the
colored people in these cases. It has filed a brief in the “grandfather” case
now before the Supreme Court. This was prepared by the president, Mr. Moor-
field Storey, one of the leaders of the American bar, who, with Mr. Harrison
of Oklahoma, will argue the “Jim Crow” case set for this term.
The association has just engaged a lawyer to assist the legal committee in
its work. The association has also engaged a man to watch every bill intro-
duced into the House and Senate in Washington. Discriminating bills have
been appearing with increasing frequency, and without the careful watching of
an expert may be railroaded through at any moment. The association is now
preparing to fight the “Jim Crow” car bill which it is generally understood
will be introduced in Congress in February. “Jim Crow” cars in Washington
mean “Jim Crow” cars in Cleveland, Cincinnati, Indianapolis, St. Louis and
perhaps even in New York and Boston.
If you want to protest, enroll with us as a new abolitionist in the
National Association, and do it now.
THE N. A. A. C. P.
89
BRANCHES.
Baltimore.
NLY a mention of the remarkable mass
meetings recently held in Baltimore
and Washington was included in the last
number of The Crisis, since it went to
press before the meetings had taken place.
The Bethel African Methodist Episcopal
Church, where the Baltimore meeting was
held, was crowded to the doors. Mr. War-
ner T. McGuinn presided. Resolutions were
adopted and wired to the President. The
speakers were Dr. Spingarn, Miss Ovington
and Mr. Villard. After comparing the un-
American policy of race segregation to the
example set by Russia, Mr. Villard said in
part:	“But the stupidity of raising this
issue does not stop there. It differs but
very little from the one which rent the
Union. The great struggle which convulsed
the United States was, in its simplest terms,
nothing else than the attempt of an aris-
tocracy of cotton and land to create two
classes of human beings in this country—the
slaves and the free. They were willing to
sacrifice the Union and everything else to
this end.	Those who in this day and
generation are seeking to establish two
classes of citizens—the disfranchised and
enfranchised—to say that there shall be two
kinds of government employees—as does
Mr. McAdoo’s Cabinet associate—they are
on the high road to convulsing anew this
land of liberty, which will never know
peace and quiet as long as there are dis-
criminations among its citizens. Upon their
heads will be the responsibility of forcing
the issue and not upon ours.”
Boston.
A large and enthusiastic audience at-
tended the mass meeting of protest against
segregation which was held in the Park
Street Church on October 20. Mr. Storey
presided. The speakers included Senator
Moses E. Clapp, Mr. Albert E. Pillsbury,
formerly attorney-general of the State, the
Rev. Samuel H. Crothers, the Rev. Mr.
Auten, Mr. Rolfe Cobleigh, assistant editor
of the Congregationalist, and Mr. Butler R.
Wilson, secretary of the branch. Letters
were received from Governor Foss, Con-
gressman A. P. Gardner and Mr. C. S.
Bird. Governor Foss wrote: “I have un-
dertaken, as a citizen and as governor, to
bring this matter to the attention of the
President, and have asked him to take such
action as may bring an end to race dis-
crimination in any department of govern-
ment. It is proper for me to say, however,
that I can hardly believe that at this late
day any national administration will reopen
the question of race discrimination in the
United States. I therefore cannot believe
that the reported acts of discrimination are
a part of a settled policy, and cannot doubt
that President Wilson will speedily put an
end to conditions which, as reported to me,
are unworthy of any free people.”
Tacoma.
On October 17 a mass meeting of protest
against segregation was held at Everett by
the Tacoma branch. Delegates from Seattle
and Tacoma were present and delivered
addresses. Judge Bell, of the Superior
Court of Everett, presided. Other speakers
were Father Saindon, through whose cour-
tesy the lecture room of the Catholic church
was placed at the disposal of the meeting;
Capt. K. K. Beecham, a veteran of the
Civil War and captain of a Negro regiment,
and Mrs. Nettie J. Asberry, secretary of the
Tacoma branch, who explained the aims and
objects of the National Association. Reso-
lutions read by Mr. Joseph Griffin, secretary
of the meeting, were forwarded to the Presi-
dent in care of Congressman Falconer.
Topeka.
An entire evening devoted to the work of
the National Association was arranged by
the branch at the recent fair held at I jane
Chapel. Mrs. Roundtree, secretary of the
branch, spoke on the origin of the associa-
tion; Mr. N. Sawyer, on its object; Mr.
Guy, on the progress it had made, and the
Rev. Mr. Walker, on the outlook. The
branch plans to publish a series of short
articles in the Topeka Daily Capital. These
will be by white and colored writers of
prominence, and will aim to explain and
further the work of the association.
Washington.
Within five blocks of the White House,
in the Metropolitan African Methodist
Episcopal Church, on October 27, the most
remarkable and epoch-making meeting ever
held in the District of Columbia protested
against the segregation of colored employees
in government departments. The crowd has
been variously estimated at from 8,000 to
90
THE CRISIS
10,000	people. The meeting was advertised for
8 o’clock, but shortly after half-past seven
the detachment, of police, detailed to keep
order, directed that the doors of the church
be closed. Some idea of the throng can be
inferred from the fact that when Dr.
Holmes, one of the speakers, arrived, and
finally pushed his way through to the iron
fence surrounding the church, it was neces-
sary to lift him bodily over the fence, so
that he might reach a side entrance leading
to the auditorium. Because of the size of
the crowd the speakers were obliged to de-
liver their ,addresses first to the meeting
within the church and afterward to an
overflow meeting of over 4,000 outside.
Mr. Archibald H. Grirnke, president of
the branch, presided. Judge Wendell
Phillips Stafford and ex-Senator Blair
spoke briefly. The principal addresses were
made by Dr. Walter H. Brooks, of Wash-
ington, Dr. John Haynes Holmes, the noted
Unitarian minister of New York, and Mr.
Villard. Musical selections were artistically
given by the Howard University choir. Dr.
Holmes made a stirring and powerful ad-
dress. He said, among other things, that
segregation, instead of allaying race pre-
judice, was really the cause of all the
friction, and characterized it as the “new
crucifixion.”
When Mr. Villard arose he received a
veritable ovation. He prefaced his address
by reading a letter which he had just re-
ceived from Mr. McAdoo, Secretary of the
Treasury, and his personal friend, request-
ing him not to speak, because in criticising
Mr. Wilson’s administration “he would be
doing injustice to a just-man.” Mr. Villard
said that he had been urged by those in
high authority to use his influence to keep
the colored people in “cool and just equi-
poise.” “It is beyond me to influence them
much in this direction,” he said, “but I
would not if I could. On the contrary, I
shall lose no opportunity to preach the doc-
trine of peaceful rebellion and revolution
against discrimination of every kind.” His
speech has been given wide publicity in the
press and much favorable editorial com-
ment. A writer in the Chicago Tribune, in
speaking of it and of the present administra-
tion’s “officializing of race prejudice,” said:
“It would be more inspiring to read Mr.
Wilson’s declaration that we must prove
ourselves the Latin-American’s friends and
champions upon terms of equality and
honor if we were not reminded at the same
moment by Mr. Villard that Mr. Wilson is
countenancing race discrimination in his
own country.”
A collection of about $300 was taken for
the work of the National Association. After
the meeting the executive committee of the
branch appointed a committee of fifty to
raise funds, and already $1,200 has been
subscribed, to be paid not later than Janu-
ary 1. This committee has expressed
itself as favoring an endowment for the
association.
Other noteworthy meetings against segre-
gation were held by the Northern California
branch, by the colored people of New
Haven, where Mr. George W. Crawford,
one of the directors of the association, made
an inspiring speech; and also ^in Portland,
Me., where Dr. Mason addressed a large
audience.
w
LEGAL.
N November 1 the association engaged
an attorney, Mr. Chapin Brinsmade,
to assist the legal committee in carry-
ing on • its work. Up to this time this
committee, comprising some of the most
eminent lawyers in this country, without
compensation have handled all legal cases
referred to the association. The work has
developed so rapidly and has increased so
in volume and importance that it has be-
come necessary to have a lawyer at national
headquarters who can devote his entire time
to this important department under the
direction of the legal committee.
Mr. Brinsmade graduated from Harvard
College with the class of 1907. During his
senior year, 1906-1907, he was absent from
the university, teaching at the Gunnery
School in Washington, Conn., of which his
father, John C. Brinsmade, is head master.
In the fall of 1907 he returned to Cam-
bridge to enter the law school from which
he was graduated in 1910. Since that time
he has been practising law in New York
City. He was admitted to the New York
bar in 1911. During the years 1911 and
1912 he has been associated with the law
firm of Van Wyck & Mygatt, and later with
their successors, Wherry & Mygatt, at 40
Wall Street.
The chairman of the board of directors
wishes to express in this way his apprecia-
CHILDREN
OF THE SUN
91
lion of the support and good work of those
branches which contributed $100 each to
enable the association to employ an attor-
ney, and of Bishop John Hurst, of Balti-
more, who personally gave $100 for this
purpose. The branches which so generously
came to the aid of the association are
Indianapolis, Washington,- Baltimore,
Quincy, Tacoma, Topeka and Detroit. Two
of our largest branches, Boston and Chi-
cago, which have always been most generous
in their contributions to headquarters, were
not asked to contribute, nor were the
branches which had just been admitted.
Especially appreciated was the co-operation
of Quincy and Tacoma, which at the time
they made theiij contributions were our
smallest branches, numbering not more than
twenty members each.
m
Mr. Villard:
After your speech last night I and many
others are convinced that you must have a
strain of Negro blood, or jrou would not
have come here and made the remarks you
did to incite the Negro to .worse crimes than
have been committed, and the most terrible
ones they commit against white women.
We cannot walk on the streets of this city
now after nightfall, as "many of us are
compelled to do in coming from our work,
without fear that we may be the next
victim.
Take them to New York and let them
associate with your wives and daughters.
A crime committed in the North, against
a white woman by a Negro, receives only a
few lines notice by your Northern papers,
but let the same crime be committed in the
South—the New York papers especially
have a half column.
If your blood is tainted, as many here
believe, you, of course, will be excused only
ou that believe.
A Washington Woman.
Washington, October 28, 1913.
I.
'\17E are children of the sun,
Rising sun!
Weaving Southern destiny,
Waitiug for the mighty hour
When our Shiloh shall appear
With the flaming sword of right,
With the steel of brotherhood,
And emboss in crimson die
Liberty! Fraternity!
II.
We are the star-dust folk,
Striving folk!
Sorrow songs have lulled to rest;
Seething passions wrought through wrongs,
Led lis where the moon rays dip
In the night of dull despair,
Showed us where the star gleams shine,
And the mystic symbols glow—
Liberty! Fraternity!
III.
We have come through cloud and mist,
Mighty men!
Dusk has kissed our sleep-born eyes,
Reared for us a mystic throne
In the splendor of the skies,
That shall always be for us,
Children of the Nazarene,
Children who shall ever sing
Liberty! Fraternity!
AT BUCKEYE LAKE.	concessions which I cannot help mentioning.
BUCKEYE LAKE is thirty-three miles "The matter to which I refer was the
east of Columbus, 0., and round about merciless way in which the prices of ordinary
it are many cottages and an amusement park. commodities were boosted on that day, ap-
In the park is a dancing hall operated by the parently for imposition on the people who
lessee of the dance grounds. Annually the are seldom favored with holidays at any re-
colored Elks of Zanesville, 0., give an out-	and who are determined to have a good
ing at the park, to which colored people time for once at whatever cost. The chief
come from all over the State—even from overcharge which I noted was in the price of
West Virginia.	* boats, which usually rent for $1 for the first
The attendance this year ran up to 20,000. hour and 50 cents for every hour thereafter.
According to the manager of the park this is ^ saw one man charge a Negro $5 for the use
the largest and best picnic that goes to the a boat for an hour, which was paid
lake. More money is spent and better order promptly and without protestation. At the
is maintained than in any other. This year, main restaurant that strange anomaly at a
in the afternoon, the big dance hall was given colored picnic was noted of chicken sand-
over to the colored people for dancing while wiches, being the only food of that style
the white people stood and sat round about left late in the afternoon. The reason was
and looked on. At night when the white people ample. They charged 25 cents for a poor
were dancing the colored people came to see little lonesome piece of fried fowl with an
them dance and to sit in the pavilion, which unadorned blanket of bread. I saw a Negro
provided almost the only seats on the coma away from the stands with three pieces
grounds; but policemen had been stationed ice, scarcely larger than walnuts, for
here and would not let them	look or sit.	which he was	charged 5 cents. So the extor-
The members of Parker’s	Orchestra, which	tion went on.	Even a crook would recognize
had been furnishing the music for the park, ^be injustice of this. For one white man I
happened to be colored men and protested was ashamed of the selfishness of my race.’
against this discrimination. Finally, when
the discrimination was kept up, the orchestra
refused to play any longer and the dancing	PBOSPEBOUS NEGROES,
stopped. The men who thus sacrificed their T J. SCOTT and W. Wilkerson, Negro
work for a principle were receiving $22	undertakers, convicted in Judge
a week each and had three weeks’ work ahead Palmer’s court of intimidation in collecting a
of them. They were succeeded by white men debt, were freed of their sentence of two
who soon quit on account	of the small	pay	years in the	penitentiary Monday morning
and conditions of work.	by Governor	Hooper. In granting the par-
A white correspondent in the Columbus <Jon Governor Hooper stated that in his
• Despatch says:	opinion the verdict against the undertakers
“Sib : The outing of the colored people at was an “effort to hold up and squeeze two
Buckeye Lake last Thursday, which was colored men who have accumulated some
marked by suoh a regrettable catastrophe, means by thrift and energy,” and that in his
and late in the evening by certain racial un- opinion the Supreme Court would eventually
pleasantness about the dance hall, was have decided in their favor.—Nashville
marked by another thing about several of the Tennessean.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
93
THE CRISIS
=FOR 19 14 g=--
It is our determination to make The Crisis in the New Year
absolutely indispensable to intelligent folk.
The news “Along the Color Line” will hereafter be so
written as to furnish a complete summary of the history of
colored folk and their struggles.
No important thought or comment on the Negro problem
will be omitted from “Opinion.”
Especial effort will be made to increase the number and
weight of the Articles published, and we expect contributions
from some of the leading thinkers of the world, white and black.
We shall publish some interesting local Studies of great Negro
cities and great Negroes of the past which you should read.
Our Book and Magazine Reviews will be more complete,
lively and critical than heretofore.
Fiction touching colored people will be given especial promi-
nence, and now and then we shall publish a poem.
The Editorial policy will be fearless and frank as usual. You
may not agree with us (and that is your privilege), but you will
have to admit that we know what we want and are not afraid to
ask for it.
Finally, we shall not forget the Children, their joys and
sorrows and hopes.
All this for ONE DOLLAR.
Mention The Cixsxs.
94
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
(EhrislmaB (£arJia
Do you want a charming
Christmas card with a
pretty colored baby on it ?
READ PAGE 54
The Thomas School oi Beauty Culture
is owned and con-
trolled by a woman
who is a collego
graduate and n
physician as well
ns a graduate of
Burnham’s School
of Beauty Culture.
Madam Mason is
giving a corre-
spondence course
which includes
physical culture
and hygiene. Every
woman needs to be
at her best in
every walk of life.
Porsonal appear-
ance is a lever
which controls her
Vi., .	_ ) destiny. Aside
rJl f/' , j from her own needs
r	r' she *s nfForded an
—opportunity	t o
learn a profession
that means a digni-
fied, lucrative business which is in great
demand. The courso covers ten weeks and a
diploma is granted. Entire fee for course, $10.
Thomas’s Magic Hair Grower, a guaran-
teed money-back article, a medicine that
cures dandruff, eczema, bald spots and pro-
motes the natural growth of the hair.
Price $1.
Thomas’s Cream removes blemishes. Price
50 cents. Send six cents for Beauty Book.
Agents wanted. Address
Mme. Alice H. Thomas-Mason
3328 State Street	Chicago, 111.
Telephones: Douglas 9456; Automatic 72172
Rogers Silverware 1 Price
his $26.50 Handsome
26 Piece, Combination Set
of Genuine Rogers Celebrat-
ed Silverware
NOW ONLY
$13.25
Consists of 6 Teaspoons, 6 Table-
spoons, 6 Medium Knives, 6 Medium
Forks, 1 Butter Knife, 1 Sugar Shell.
In Plain or French Gray finish, Beau-
tiful Raised Vintage Design. Put up
in fine Leather case, silk lined. With
a printed guarantee from Rogers factory
It is the greatest bargain in High-Grade
Silverware ever offered. Don't delay in sending your ord$r as we only let a limited number go
at such a low price. Send Post Office or Express money order or Registered Letter,
THE ACME CO., Mfrs. & Jobbers, Eberly Bldg., Dept. L, Columbus, 0.
“TEfcThe Height of Perfection. ( We sell T^ogen Silverware cheaper than any retail dealer In the world.)
The Crisis is of value as an advertising medium
See rates printed on page 97
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
95
Miss Garita Day announces
the opening of her new “Pari-
sian Shop,” where she has dis-
played a most complete stock of
smart ladies’ wear.
Every woman in Chicago is
cordially invited to call and in-
spect the very latest creations
from Paris and New York.
Miss Day will give her per-
sonal attention to every sale,
thus insuring to her clientele the
benefit of her artistic taste and
intimate association with the
“best-dressed women of
America.”
Prices reasonable. Gall on
her, whether you contemplate
purchasing or not.
THE PARISIAN SHOP
States Theatre Building
35th and State St., Chicago, 111.
SPECIAL OFFER
A year’s subscription will be
given free to anyone sending in
at one time five paid-up yearly
subscriptions to The Crisis.
This offer holds good until mid-
night, December 31, 1913.	•
THE CRISIS
One Dollar a Year
26 Vesey Street, New York City
MILES M. WEBB
Chicago’s Expert Photographer
I spedallM In every phase of artistic picture moJdng.
Sand me jour photos for enlsrgwneat. Price* reasonable
Satisfaction guaranteed.	'Phone 6688 Douglass.
WEBB STUDIO
3519 State Street	Chicago, 111.
Grand Supreme
Governor
The Loyal Knights and
Ladies of Malachites
is incorporated under the
laws of the District of Col-
umbia. Its Object is to com-
bine the Negroes of the
world for their mutual ad-
vancement along indus-
trial and commercial lines.
It also stands for the full
enjoyment by the Negro of
h i s civil and political rights.
This movement is interna-
tional in its scope; wehave
lodges not only in the United States but in
Jamaica, B. W. I • Colon, Bocas del Toro, Pan-
ama (Canal Zone) and Costa Rica. It is a dark
day for the Negro and he must come together.
Race movements have failed because our peo-
ple were told that by contributing thereto the
race only would bebenefited, but no tangible
individaal benefits were offered. By our plan
the member pays 35c. per month in the Asso-
ciation and receives $4.00 per week sick ben-
efits and $100 at death. We not only look
after the race but each individual member as
well. A big convention is soon to be held here.
We want a lodge in every village, hamlet and
town and a delegate to be sent to this conven-
tion. Organizers wanted everywhere. For
fall particulars, write
KNIGHTS OF MALACHITES
1111 You St. N. W. Washington, D. C. j
Consult Our List of Suitable Books for
Holiday Gifts
THE CRISIS
26 Vesey Street .-	- New York
Mention The Crisis.
96
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
SCHOOL OF BEAUTY CULTURE AN© HAIM ©MESSING
Kelsey’s Hair Dressing, Hair Grower, Scalp Tonic and Face Lotion have no oqual. Price, 60c each.
Guaranteed under Food and Drug Act, Juno SO, 1006.
KELSEYS
Telephone, Mornlngside 8162
143 West 131st St.
NEW YORK
Manicuring, Shampooing, Hair Dressing, Marcol Wav-
ing, Facial and Body MaBsago, Hair Making, Chiropody,
etc., scientifically taught. Unlimited practice in parlor
day and night. Pupils taught at home, if desired.
Diplomas. Special Summer Course, $7.60 up. Send for
booklet. Mmc. A. Cartor Kolsey, Gon’l Instr.; Dr. Samuel
A. Kelsey, Chiropodist, President and Gon’l Manager.
MUTUAL TEACHERS’
AGENCY
Recommends teachers for schools; secures
employment' for teachers. Blanks and
information furnished free on application.
1335 T Street, N. W. Washington, D. C.
No. 24 Southern Buggy
Highest Grade
A Value Unequaled. Sold on $1.00
Profit Margin „ ^Tom
to User
Write '"for prices
and other styles.
Send for catalogue.
C. R. PATTERSON
&. SONS.
Greenfield. Ohio
Largest NegTO Carriage concern In the United States.
WANTED
500 Negro families (farmers preferred) to .
settle on FREE Government Lands in
Chaves County, New Mexico. Blackdom is
a Negro colony. Fertile soil, ideal climate.
No “Jim Crow” Laws. For information
write
JAS. HAROLD CO1 r MAN
Blackdom -	New Mexico
DOUGLASS SPECIALTIES
Ten dollars and more a day to live agents.
100% profit. Sells to ever colored man and
woman on earth. This is the quickest kind of easy
money. Send 15 cents in stamps or coin for 50-
cent sample and terms. Money back if not satis-
fied at first glance.
WANTED—ONE MAN OB WOMAN IN EVERY
locality to start a Candy Kitchen. Best paying
small business on earth 1 Few dollars starts you.
Get away from wage slavery. Write for particu-
lars. Native Herbarium Oo., Ambler, Pa.
START A BUSINESS OF YOUR OWN
We want live, hustling* men and women in every
village, town and city to start a big successful
business of their own. Experience not needed; we
teach you the business. If you have the real
will power you can have an independent business
that will pay you from $75 to $100 per month.
Write to-day before some one in your territory
gets ahead of you. Just inclose a 2-cent stamp for
particulars.
A. BLOUNT & COMPANY
Washington -	-	-	-	-	-	- N. 0.
DOUGLASS SPECIALTIES COMPANY
3548 Vernon Avenue ... Chicago, HI.
REGALIA
A Race Enterprise
Manufacturing Badges,
Banners and Supplies
for all Fraternal and
Church Societies. Cata-
logue upon request.
CENTRAL REGALIA CO.
Jos. L. Jones, Pres.
N. E. Cor. 8th and Plum Sta.
Cincinnati, Ohio
Start a Mail Order Business and Make Money
You can operate in your own home -during spare
time. The parcel post has opened up the doors of
opportunity to YOU. Others are making $20 to
$500 a week. Why can’t you? By our method
yeu can start with $5 and up. We offer you thirty
live, money-making mail order plans. You can
make 96 cents profit on every dollar order. We
furnish circulars, printed matter and place your
advertising at lowest rates. Send 10 cents for
complete outfit. Do it to-day—Nowl
MAIL DEALERS WHOLESALE HOUSE
617 Dearborn Street	^ Chicago, 111.
I. RY. C. I
COLORED MEN
WANTED TO PREPARE AS
SLEEPING-CAR AND TRAIN
PORTERS.
No experience necessary. Posi-
tions pay $65 to $100 a month.
Steady work. New York roads.
Passes and uniforms furnished when
necessary. Write now.
Dept. 19, Indianapolis, Ind.
SANTIAGO GEMS C. 0. lDByF”In
Tk»j look ud wear tid bob* GENUINE
sured Parcel Post
but an expert e*o lelt them from auvumc DIAMONDS
They uc not Imitation* of diamonds but * genuine atone, cut and faceted by
•killed diamond cutter* exactly Ilk* a diamond, aland filing, fire and acidteiu
like adtamoed. Contain* no glaaa, pa* to or foil backing. It *parkl*a toil like a
diamond and on aecountof their great hardness will retain thoir brilliancy
forever. To advertise thaae Santiago Gem* w* will for a ahor* time send yoor
choice of the above Solid Gold ring* O.O.D. $6 00 for the Ladle* with H carator
110.00 for the G*nt* with 1 earat Santiago Gema by mail or expreaa. Give It
any teat yon daalro and if yon find it la not all we claim raturn It at our ezpenie.
Send your exact site and order at once aa fhla Special Offer la for a ahorttlme
only. Diamond Java airy Co., D«P> >6 ■ 189 V?. Badlton BL.Chloogo, III,
Mention The Cbisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
97
BI® Bargain Package	$Tri,“to™
to you for 50 cents. This outfit will be sufficient for the entire family and your
Christmas gift will not be complete without it. This package contains:
One large 1914 Art Calendar of a
beautiful colored girl, in colors.
Ten assorted artistic Post Cards of
Negro subjects.
Ten embossed Christmas Cards.
Ten embossed New Year Cards.
Three small Christmas Calling Cards.
Three New Year Calling Cards.
Three Christmas Seals.
Three Christmas Tags.
Price, postpaid, 50-cent money-order
J. GRIFFITH ART COMPANY
36-38 Beekman Street -	--	--	--	--	--	- New York
Jesus a Negro
Woolly Hair ?
James Webb
Webb’s books and pictures prove
it and show it by the Bible. A
picture, 12x18, of Jesus with
woolly hair, and His Holy Angels
at His second coming, and a book
with Biblical references, extending
from Genesis to Revelations, prov-
ing the fact. All for $1.50 and
postage prepaid. The book alone
is worth its price.
The following are comments upon the same:
“I beg to say, after hearing Elder Webb on
the subject, that the blood of the Negro coursed
through the veins of Jesus and Solomon. I am
frank to say that I have seldom, if ever, enjoyed
such an intellectual treat. The position he
assumed as the subject of his lecture touching the
Hametic blood and race is difficult and requires a
practical knowledge of Biblical and historical lore.
But I am pleased to say that he not only shows
himBelf an expert, but the master of the situation,
and I commend him to the ministry and churches
of our race of every denomination.”
Truly,
(Signed) Bishop H. M. TURNER.
"The evidence submitted by Elder Webb tending to prove
that tho Saviour of mankind was a black man seems to be
sufficient to put thoso who oppose tho proposition upon their
proof. Now that the chain of evidence presented by Mr.
Webb appears so complete, it Is strange that none of the
delvers in the Biblical records have not advanced the sensa-
tional proposition before. Not only was Christ a Negro,
but it seems that Solomon, who has been held up through
all the ages as the personification of wisdom, had Ethiopian
blood in his veins, also.’'—Seattle "Dally Times."
Price $1.50 for picture and book. Send money
order or express order to James M. Webb, 3519
State Street, Chicago, 111., in the care of the Webb
Studio.
RELIABLE, LIVE,
RESPONSIBLE MEN
who can sell real estate can MAKE MORE
than $200 PER MONTH acting as
AGENTS for the sale of our properties in
MUSKOGEE and TAFT, OKLAHOMA.
The real coming country where there are
opportunities and openings for all. Write
us to-day, giving your age and experience,
and we will offer you a FINE PROPOSI-
TION WHICH WILL MAKE YOU
MONEY. Address
REEVES REALTY CO.
Department C
217 Flynn-Ames Bldg. Muskogee, Okla.
Crisis Advertising Rates
Beginning with the January. 1914,
issue, and continuing until further
notice, the rates for advertisements in
The Crisis will be as follows:
15 cents per agate line. N.o less
than four lines accepted.
$2 per inch per single column,
counting fourteen lines to the inch.
$45 for back cover.
$40 for inside cover page, front or
back.
$32 per page for other pages.
These rates are based upon the
general charge of $1 per page for
each thousand net circulation.
Old contracts at the former rates
will be honored until the date of
expiration of said contracts.
THE CRISIS
26 Vesey Street, New York City
$25.00 PER WEEK
may be made in .commissions by parties handling
“History of Negro Soldiers in Spanish-American
War” combined with ‘‘History of the Negro Race.”
400 pages, 50 illustrations. Price $1.25 net.
Address:	E. A. JOHNSON
154 Nassau Street_-__-___-___New York
AGENTS WANTED—Everywhere for onr 1914
‘‘What Cheer” Art Calendar, dedicated to our fiftieth
anniversary of freedom. \Yrite, enclosing 50 cents
for outfit, terms and territory. VAN DERZEE
SUPPLY CO., 2151 S. 10th Street. Lincoln, Neh.
WANTED
Agents for The Crisis. Dignified work
Address: 26 Vesey Street, New York
Mention The Crisis.
9S
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
THE CRISIS IS THE OFFICIAL ORGAN OF
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE
ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE
The Crisis was started under the NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
three years ago after it had called Dr. Du Bois from Atlanta Univer-
sity as Director of Publicity and Research. The NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION still publishes The Crisis. The Crisis is its mouth-
piece. Through it the ASSOCIATION speaks each month to
150,000	readers. From them it now seeks a reply.
You like The Crisis. Why not join the ASSOCIATION which
it represents?
The NATIONAL ASSOCIATION has nearly 2,000 paying
members, 80 per cent, of whom are colored. It wants 200,000. The
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION represents YOU. It fights YOUR
battles.
Are YOU a member? If not, fill out and return this member-
ship blank.
MEMBERSHIP BLANK
I hereby accept membership in the NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE
ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE.
Please find enclosed-..........dollars and enter my name as a member in Class
----------paying $..-.
Name------------
Address.....
—a year, and send me THE CRISIS.
Class 1. Donors, paying $100 to $500 per
year.
Class 2. Sustaining Members, paying
$25 per year.
Class 3. Contributing Members, paying
$2 to $10 per year.
Class 4. Associate Members, paying $1
per year.
The subscription to THE CRISIS is $1 extra, except to members paying $2 or more,
who signify their wish that $1 of their dues be considered a CRISIS subscription.
All members in good standing have the privilege of attending and voting at the
Annual Meeting of the Association.
PLEASE HAKE CHECKS PAYABLE TO NATIONAL ASSOCIATION POE THE ADVANCEMENT OP
COLORED PEOPLE, 2« VEBEY STREET, NEW YORK CITY.
Mention Thk Csibib.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
99
LEGAL DIRECTORY
Residence 2546 Michigan	Office Phone
Bell Phone £7-2161	Home 58 Main
C. H. CALLOWAY
Attorney and Oounselor-at-Law
Notary Public
117 W. 6th Street	Kansas City, Mo.
FRANKLIN W. WILLIAMS
Attorney and Oonnselor-at-Law
Notary Public
Beal Estate Conveyancer
200 Parrish 8troet	Durham, N. O
Office L. D. Telephone 3297 Market
Residence L. D. Telephone, 5277-M Market
GEORGE A. DOUGLAS
Counselor-at-Law
Booms 013-614, Metropolitan Building
113 Market St., Cor. Washington, Newark, N. J.
General Practice	Notary Public
WILLIAM R. MORRIS
Attorney and Oounselor-at-Law
1020 Metropolitan Life Building
Minneapolis, Minn.
BROWN S. SMITH
Attorney and Oounselor-at-Law
Offices: Suite 610, Sykes Block.
Minneapolis, Minn.
GEORGE W. MITCHELL
Attorney-at-Law
908 Walnut Street
Philadelphia, Pa.
Tel. 2026 Fort Hill	Gable Address, Epben
EDGAR P. BENJAMIN
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
34 SCHOOL STREET	Boston, Mass.
Telephone Connection
W. Aahbie Hawkins	George W. F. MoMechen
HAWKINS & McMECHEN
Attorneys-at-Law
21 East Saratoga Street	Baltimore, Md.
Phones: Office, Bell 4059; New 420-M.
Residence, New 73S-A.
THOS. E. GREENE, JR.
Attorney and Oounselor-at-Law
Notary Public
Maloney Block	Youngstown, Ohio
William H. Austin	Edmund O. Austin
Law Offices of
AUSTIN & AUSTIN
St. Paul Building, 220 Broadway, New York
Suite 7—H. T, J. K
Telephones: 7400, 5865, 5866 Cortlandt
B. F. BOOTH
Attorney-at-Law
57 N. SECOND STREET - MEMPHIS, TENN.
LEGAL DIRECTORY—Continued
Tai.nJiftn.i- J Central 104W
Telephones. | Main gl
HARRY E. DAVIS
Attorney-at-Law	Notary Publie
1607 Williamson Bidg.	Cleveland, O.
Telephone 5552 Cedar
R. O. LEE
Attorney and Counsel or-at-Law
Practice in All Courts
25 and 26 Union Block, 4th & Cedar, St. Paul. Minn.
rp ,	- / Office : Main 9168
Telephones. {ReBidence: Vermont 1156
E. BURTON CERUTI
Lawyer
500-501-502 Thorpe Building
Corner Broadway and Franklin Streets
Residence: 1540 W. 36th Place Los Angeles, Cal.
PERSONAL CARDS
Telephone 5277 Morningside
DR. GERTRUDE E. CURTIS
Surgeon Dentist
188 West 135th Street, New York City
Telephone 4886 Momlngslde
DR. D. W. ONLEY
Surgeon Dentist
S. W. Oor. 133d St. and Lenox Ave., New York
Offloe Honrs: 9 to 12 a. ns., 1 to 9 p. m.
Sundays by Appointment
'Phones: Residence, 515; Office. 042: Hospital. 403.
OR. J. R. SHEPPARD
Physician and Surgeon
Chief surgeon and superintendent of Sheppard Sanitarium and
Nurse Training ScbooL
Marshall................................................Taxas
Telephone 4048 Prospect
JOHN B. MOSELEY
REAL ESTATE and INSURANCE
640 Pulton Street	Brooklyn, N. Y.
Telephone Connection
R. W. FEARING
Electrician
Contracting, Repairing, Motors, Electric and
Gas Fixtures
Electrician recent Emancipation Exposition in
New York
85 Marion Street -	Brooklyn, N. Y.
Telephone Columbus 3935	Open All Night
RODNEY DADE & BROS.
Undertakers and Embalmers
Notary Pnblio
Funeral Parlor and Chapel Free.
Lioensed Lady Embalmer	Prompt 8ervie«
206 West 53d Street	New York, N. Y.
Between Broadway and 8th Avenue
Mention Thb Crisis.
100
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
$60 A WEEK and EXPENSES
That’s the money you can get this yoar. I mean it. I want County Salea Managers
quick, men or women who bcllevo In the square deal, who will go Into partnership with
me. No capital or experience needed. My folding Bath Tub has taken the country by
storm. Solves the bathing problem. No plumbing, no water works required. Full length
bath In any room. Folds In small roll, handy as an umbrella. I tell you It’s great!
GREAT I Rivals $100 bath room. Now listen 1 I want YOU to handlo your county.
I'll furnish demonstrating tub free. I’m posltivo—absolutely cortnln—you can got bigger
money In a week with me than you over made In a month beforo—I KNOW IT I
TWO SALES A DAY---------3300 A MONTH
That's what you get—every month. Needed In every homo, badly wanted, eagorly bought.
Modern bathing facilities for all the peoplo. Tako the orders right and loft. Quick
sales. Immense profits. Look at these men. Kunkle. Ohio, received $210 first week;
Mathias. Florida. $120 In two days; Corrigan. New "York, $114 In 60 hours: Newton.
California, $60 In three days. Y'ou can do as well. TWO
SALES A DAY MEANS $300 A MONTH. The work is very
easy, pleasant, permanent, fascinating. It means a business
of your own.
I grant credit, furnish sample, help you out, back you up—
don't doubt, don't hesitate, don't hold back. You cannot
lose. My other men are building homes, bank accounts, bo
can you. Act. then, quick. SEND NO MONEY. Just name
on penny post card for free tub offer. Hustle!
YOU!
YES.Y0U
CAN GET IT
H.	S. ROBINSON
President
190 Vance St., Toledo, O.
DEMONSTRATING
TUB FREE
Homes in Long Island l
Few people realize the wonderful possibilities of Long Island
property, the rapid growth of that section of the city and its wonderful
future.
WE ARE SELLING GOOD HOMES IN CORONA, with all
improvements, only five cents carfare to New York. Corona is in the
very center of Greater New York, and in a few months will be reached
by the rapid transit lines of Manhattan, giving to the people of that
section of the city a five-cent carfare to any section of Manhattan.
The only place within thirty minutes of Times Square, Grand
Central Station or the Pennsylvania Station, where the man of small
means can get a modern home with all improvements at a moderate
cost. We would be glad to have you visit Corona at our expense.
Corona is one of the highest elevations in New York City, has an
excellent car service, good schools, excellent water supply and the best
place in all New York for children. For full particulars as to price
and terms address
L. S. REED & COMPANY
142 Hunter Avenue - --	-- -- - Long Island City
Some choice investment lots for $50 on reasonable terms
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS
ADVERTISER
101
“An invaluable addition to Lincoln-
iana.’ ’—Grand Rapids Herald.
Lincoln and
Slavery
By ALBERT E. PILLSBURY
“A strong marshalling of evidence."—
New York Evening Post.
"Inspiring and timely. * * * Every lover
of Lincoln will rejoice in the spirit of this
vigorous and gripning essay."—Duluth
Herald.
"The whole question of Lincoln’s attitude
toward slavery is admirably discussed and
summed up in this little volume. Those
who think Lincoln was lenient toward
sluvery should read it."—Chicago News.
"Nowhere else are the essential facts in
the great drama put into such compact and
yet such fascinating form." — Boston
Globe.
"Those who read it will want to own it."
—Milwaukee Free Press.
At all bookstores. 75 cents net. By mail
82 cents.
Houghton Mifflin Company
4 Park Street	Boston, Mass.
Special Otter to
Crisis Readers
If you will send us $1.50 and
a new subscriber to The Crisis
we will send The Crisis for one
year and a copy of “Hazel,” by
Mar>’ White Ovington.
For $2 we will send The
Crisis for one year and a copy
of “Norris Wright Cuney,” by
Maud Cuney Hare.
THE CRISIS
26 Vesey Street, New York City
Atlanta University
Studies of the
Negro Problems
17 Monographs	Sold Separately
Address:
ATLANTA UNIVERSITY CONFERENCE
Atlanta University, Atlanta, Ga.
The Curse of Race Prejudice
By James F. Morton, Jr., A. M.
An aggressive exposure by an Anglo-Saxon
champion of equal rights. Startling facts and crush-
ing arguments. Fascinating reading. A necessity
for clear understanding and up-to-date propaganda.
Belongs in the library of every friend of social
justice. Price 25 cents. Send orders to
JAMES F. MORTON, JR.
244 West 143d Street	New York, N. Y.
A Book of Exceptional Interest
to Readers of The Crisis
LIBERIA
Descriptive — History — Problems
By FREDERICK STARR
of the
University of Chicago
No other book like it. Buy it. Read it.
Talk about it. Sent postpaid for $1.10
postal money order. Address
FREDERICK STARR
5541 Drexel Avenue - - - Chicago, 111.
Souvenir Memento
Program
of the National Emancipation
Exposition recently held in New
York City.
Beautifully printed and con-
taining valuable information con-
cerning the Negro American.
PRICE 15 CENTS
THE CRISIS
26 Vesey Street, New York City
Mention The Crisis.
102
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
The African Abroad or His Evolution
in Western Civilization
By WILLIAM H. FERRIS, A. M.
Two volumes of 500 pages each, illustrated. $5 a set, plus 30c. postage.
Published by the Tuttle, Morehouse & Taylor Go., New Haven, Conn.
PRESS COMMENTS
FEOM THE “SCHOOL JOURNAL,” OCTOBER, 1913
‘ ‘Therfc come occasionally from the press, books of weight and moment, workB of research
and investigation or of wide reading ana of clear thought, treatises from which the world of
culture never recovers. Such is ‘The African Abroad,’ distinctly radical in its treatment,
distinctly revolutionary in its result, and altogether true os a whole in content and in expres-
sion.. The Afro-American must* put on the spiritual clothing of the Anglo-American, must live
his institutional life, must thipk and feel accordingly. From Africa came every Afro-
European race. The' Ethiopians and the Negroes are descendants of tho same stock as the
Latins and Teutons, a proposition beyond censure and cavil. As one reads these great pages
of a faithful investigator and witness one must regret that the author in common decency could
not include among colored Americans thousands as have ‘crossed the line and come white.’ Yet
enough persons remain to prove indisputably that the black Negro and the colored man are
essentially human, __ needing only education and opportunity to live upon the same level as
white men. This is not to say one word in favor of social equality in marriage. In truth
the whole weight of this monumental work restB upon the side of the scale whereon are
written these words: ‘The colored man, as such, remaining true to whatever amalgamation he
now represents, can become equal sharer with the white man in American liberty.’ Such
a book tends to develop in Afro-Americans that self-respect which is essential to human worth.
The author reveals a charming style and an interesting personality. This admirable work of
race historical philosophy is oi epochal importance and belongs in every library of scholarship
anywhere in the world.”
FROM THE NEW BEDFORD “STANDARD,” SEPTEMBER 30, 1913
“Six thousand years of history as related to the Negro race and the summing up of
his careers of a thousand exceptional men of color in many countries of Europe, in Africa, and
the West Indies, ip a plain prosaic statement of the scope of William H. Ferris’s two-volume
book on ‘The African Abroad, or His Evolution in Western Civilization, Tracing His Develop-
ment Under Caucasian Milieu.’ If this title, formal and scholarly, suggests a scholarly treatment
of the subject, really profound and tremendously in earnest, it suggests truly, for it is a
deep and precise ’study in all the prospects of importance of the subject. But if the formal
title suggests any thought of dry reading, there begins the mistake, for Mr. Ferris’s book is
as interesting as romance and as stirring as the most appealing piece of history ever written.
“Mr. Ferris is pre-eminently fitted for his task. He is recognized by scholars and
statesmen as a man of unusual intellectual obility measured by standards	of	scholarship	and
not by race or color. He has taken degrees at Yale and Harvard; and	he	has	since	then
gained the knowledge and experience that have come from travel through twenty States and
sojourning in over two hundred cities and towns, looking into the Negro question as it pre-
sents itself aB a live problem to-day, and from study of the literature of the world on the
subject of the Negro back to its beginning.”
• FROM THE SPRINGFIELD “REPUBLICAN,” OCTOBER 1, 1913
“And now we have - at New Haven a philosophical writer who has profited by a good
university education, and publishes two volumes of mixed speculation—history and biography—
extending in its scope from the councils of the Absolute before worlds existed, and thereafter
from the undifferentiated star-dust through differentiated worlds, down not only to our modern
days, but beyond; by an excursion into the future we contemplate the burning out of the
sun, and the consequent starvation of the whole solar system. * * *
“* * * In this world’s affairB, Mr. Ferris has good testimonials as	to	his	competence
for writing the story of his race. * * *
“* * * In history he is well read and pacific; he admires T. R.. but not excessively; and
he states his case in history very forcibly. A few flaws can be found by searching, but hardly
more than any book in two volumes can show. There is to be a third volume, in \yhich the
never-ending subject is to be temporarily, concluded. * * *
“* * * ipjjg important thing	with the Negro, as	with	other men, is	his	religion. On
that	point Mr. Ferris has much to	say, and says it well; but	perhaps with too little reference
to	the modifying American religion	of the colored race	here.	* • * *
“* * * It will be seen that .-Mr. Ferris writes	easily	and fluently.	He	quotes freely
but without much system in his citations; has read immensely and thought sufficiently; flatters
in his biographies and brief notices; and when his work *18 completed and indexed, it will be
of great value.”
Address orders to
W. H. FERRIS, 92 Eaton Street, New Haven, Conn., U. S. A.
• or to the
TUTTLE, MOREHOUSE & TAYLOR GO., New Haven, Conn.
Mention The Crisis.
A Life of
NORRIS WRIGHT GUNEY
By
MAUD GUNEY HARE
(His daughter)
Would you like to read about a red-blooded man who was
one of the great leaders of Negro Americans? Would you like
to inspire your children with the life of this “Tribune of the
Black People”?
8vo; 250 pages. Postpaid, $1.50. Best terms to agents.
Published to-day.
THE CRISIS PUBLISHING COMPANY
26 Vesey Street ------ New York
HAZEL
The Story of a Little Colored Girl
By MARY WHITE OVINGTON
Author of “Half a Man”
Price $1.00 net. Postage prepaid, $1.08. For
sale through our agents and at The Crisis
office, as well as at leading book stores.
CRISIS PUBLISHING COMPANY
26 VESEY STREET	NEW YORK CITY
Suitable Gift Books
U3 KB PRICE INCLUDES POSTAGE £0 K0
The Quest of the Silver Fleece. W. E. B. Du Bois......$1.50
House Behind the Cedars. Charles W. Chesnutt.......... 1.65
Hazel. Mary White Ovington............................ 1.08
i
Autobiography of an ex-Colored Man. Anonymous......... 1.40
The Testing Fire. Alexander Corkey.................... 1.35
Lyrics of Lowly Life. Paul Laurence Dunbar............ 1.40
Marrow of Tradition. Charles W. Chesnutt.............. 1.65
The Sport of the Gods. Paul Laurence Dunbar........... 1.65
Norris Wright Cuney. Maud Cuney Hare.................. 1-50
A Narrative of the Negro. Lelia Amos Pendleton........ 1.65
Souls of Black Folk. W. E. B. Du Bois................. 1.35
Race Adjustment. Kelly Miller......................... 2.15
History of the Negro. B. G. Brawley................... 1-35
Half a Man. Mary White Ovington....................... 1-12
Mind of Primitive Man. Franz Boas..................... 1.65
Aftermath of Slavery. William Sinclair................ 1.65
John Brown. W. E. B. Du Bois.......................... 1-45
Race Prejudice. Jean Finot........................... 3.25
Story of the Negro. Booker T. Washington............. 3.25
Flower o’ the Peach. Percival Gibbon................. 1.45
The Colored Inventor. Henry E. Baker....................15
A Child’s Story of Dunbar. Julia L. Henderson........25..
Address
THE CRISIS
Twenty-six Vesey Street -	New York City
m
Join the National Association {or
the Advancement of Colored People

Ipr^iittary Hmtftmtmt!
ICnniu
J0nulii 15? 3xtt
Mnzt
g>trtk? llje Ulnui ?

BW WE WANT
$1,500,000
Paid-for Insuraee©
By December 31, 1913
In Policies from $250 to $5,000
Premiums payable Annually, Semi-
Annually, Quarterly. Your applica-
tion will help. Send us to-day your
name, address, age, occupation.
Standard Life Insurance Co.
Capital paid in .	. $100,000.00
OLD LINK	LEGAL RESERVE
HOME OFFICE:
200 Auburn Avenue	Atlanta, Ga.
HEMAN E. PERRY, President	A. F. HERNDON, Treasurer
HARRY H. PACE, Secretary
M<-uiioii Tiik ('hisis.
THE CRISIS
A RECORD OF THE DARKER RACES
PUBLISHED BY THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE, AT 26 VESEY STREET, NEW YORK CITY
Conducted by
W. E. BURGHARDT DU BOIS
AUGUSTUS GEAKVTLIiE DILL, Business Manager
Contents for January, 1914
Page
CARTOON. “In the Saddle!” By	Lorenzo Harris....... 119
ARTICLES
THE SONG OF THE SMOKE.	A Poem....................  132
A MAN THEY DIDN’T KNOW. A Story. By James D. Corrothers.
Part II....................................... 136
A NEW BUSINESS VENTURE.	By	H.	H. Pace............ 142
DEPARTMENTS
ALONG THE COLOR LINE............................... HI
MEN OF THE MONTH.................................. 120
OPINION .......................................... 124
EDITORIAL ........................................ 133
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE ............................... 139
THE BURDEN ....................................... 146
WHAT TO READ...................................... 147
TEN CENTS A COPY; ONE DOLLAR A YEAR
FOREIGN SUBSCRIPTIONS TWENTY-FIVE CENTS EXTRA
RENEWALS:	When a subscription blank is attached to this page a renewal of your
subscription is desired. The date of the expiration of your subscription will be found on the
'VraPPeQHAjjQE OF ADDRESS: The address of a subscriber can be changed as often as desired.
In ordering a change of address-, both the old and the new address must be given. Two weeks’
notice is required.	.
MANUSCRIPTS and drawings relating to colored people are desired. They must be accom-
panied by return postage. If found unavailable they will be returned.
Entered as Second-class Matter in the Post Office at New York, N. Y.
108
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
Atlanta University
Is beautifully located in the Oity of Atlanta, Ga.
The courses of study include High School, Nor-
mal School and College, with manual training
and domestic science. Among \the teachers aro
graduates of Yale, Harvard, Dartmouth, Smith
and Wellesley. Forty-two years of successful
work have been completed. Students come from
all parts of the South. Graduates are almost
universally successful.
For further information address
President EDWARD T. WARE
. ATLANTA, GA.
Knoxville College
Beautiful Situation. Healthful Location.
The Best Moral and Spiritual Environment.
A Splendid Intellectual Atmosphere,
Noted for Honest % and Thorough Work.
Offers full courses in the following departments:
College, Normal, High School, Grammar School and
Industrial.
Good water, steam heat, electric lights, good
drainage. Expenses very reasonable.
Opportunity for Self-help.
Fall Term Began September, 1913.
For information address
President R. W. McGRANAHAN
KNOXVILLE, TENN.
The Agricultural and
Mechanical College
Maintained by the govern-
ments of North Carolina and of
the United States. Open all the
year round. For males only.
Winter term began December 1,
1913. Board, lodging and tuition,
$7 per month. Best opportunities
for Negro youth. Night school
for indigent but ambitious young
men. For catalog or further
information, address
PRESIDENT DUDLEY
A.	& M. College Greensboro, N. C.
“In the Heart of tho Healthy Hills"
The Agricultural and
Mechanical College
NORMAL, ALABAMA
Makes a special ofTort to meet the noeds of
young people who must work out thoir own salva-
tion. It gives breadwinners a chance to go to
school and so puts n first-class English education and
a trndo within tho reach of every young person of
push and purpose.
Board, lodging and washing cost $9 por month.
An entrance fee of $10 covers modicine, hospital
care and doctor’s bill for the year.
School opens the first Monday in October and
closes the last Thursday in May.
WALTER S. BUCHANAN, President
LINCOLN MSTITUTE
Jefferson City, Missouri
Founded by the Negro soldiers of
the 64th and 65th Regiments. Sup-
ported by the State of Missouri.
One of the best-equipped schools
in the country for the education of
Negro boys and girls. Normal,
Collegiate, Agricultural and Indus-
trial Courses. Normal diplomas
carrying with them the degree B. Pd.
are life certificates to teach in the
public schools of Missouri. The
degree A. B. conferred upon those
who complete the collegiate course.
Four teachers of Music: Voice Cul-
ture, Piano, Violin, Band and
Orchestra Practice. Elocution and
Athletics.
Board $9.50 a month. Tuition $3.00 tho
year to Missouri students. All others pay
$13.00 a year. Catalog free.
B. F. ALLEN, A. M., LL. D.
President.
ST. MARY’S SCHOOL
An Episcopal boarding and day school
for girls, under the direction of the Sisters
of St. Mary. Address:
THE SISTER-IN-CHARGE
611 N. 43d St.	W. Philadelphia, Pa.
CARNEGIE COLLEGE-HOME STUDY
“60 PAGE BULLETIN FREE”
COURSES BY MAIL
Grammar School Agricultural
High School Poultry
Norma
P rofesiiona
Penmanship
Domestic Science
Civil Service
Engineering
Drawing
English
Language
Pr«». GALBREATH
[Type-writing
Short-hand
Book-keeping Langua
Law	Real E:
Reduced rates of tuition to first
(applicants. For "Free Bulletin”
[and ''Special Scholarship,” apply
CARNEGIE COLLEGE
No. 10D St.. ROGERS. Ohio.
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
109
National Religious Training School
IT IS MORE THAN A MERE SCHOOL
IT IS A COMMUNITY OF SERVICE AND UPLIFT
Its influence is destined to be felt in all sections of the country in improved
Negro community life wherever our trained workers locate.
Settlement workers, missionaries for home and foreign mission fields,
Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A. secretaries and district nurses receive a compre-
hensive grasp of their studies under a Wellesley graduate and experienced
co-workers and actual every-day practice through the school's SOCIAL
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
We aim also to create a better qualified ministry.
Industrial training, advanced literary branches, business school.
Thirty-two acres; ten modern buildings; healthful location.
We can accommodate a few more earnest, ambitious students.
Communities requiring social workers should write us.
For catalog and detailed information address:
PRESIDENT JAMES E. SHEPARD
National Religious Training School - -- -- -- -- - Durham, N. C.
The school has no endowment fund and must raise a yearly maintenance
fund of $15,000 for running expenses. Won’t you help us this year?
“I cordially commend the school’s interest and needs to all who believe
in the Negro race and in our obligation to help promote its intellectual,
moral and religious uplift.”
—Rkv. Dr. Charles H. Parkhurst, New York City.
Atlanta University
Studies of the
Negro Problems
17 Monographs	Sold Separately
Address:
ATLANTA UNIVERSITY CONFERENCE
Atlanta University, Atlanta, Ga.
The Curse of Race Prejudice
By James F. Morton, Jr., A. M.
An aggressive exposure by an Anglo-Saxon
champion of equal rights. Startling facts and crush-
ing arguments. Fascinating reading. A necessity
for clear understanding and up-to-date propaganda.
Belongs in the library of every friend of social
justice. Price 25 cents. Send orders to
JAMES F. MORTON, JR.
244 West 14Sd Street ... New York, N. Y.
J. E. ORMES
ACCOUNTANT
Audits	Systems
Business information by mail. Open for
•engagements July and August
Box 25, Wilberforce University
Wilberforce, O.
Negro in American History
(In Press)
Traces status of the Negro from
discovery, colonization and settle-
ment to the close of Revolution.
Evolution of citizenship to 20th
century. Also biographical sketches
of eminent men and women as
illuminating side lights.
To every instructor of colored
youth, every student in secondary
schools, every one desirous of making
further researches, this work is com-
mended by educators, scholars and
investigators.
Full bibliography, chronology and
comprehensive index. Illustrations.
$1.25; by postage, $1.40. Agents
wanted. Address:
J. W. CROMWELL
1439 Swann St., N. W. Washington, D. C.
WANTED—Colored carriage smiths,
woodworkers, trimmers and painters.
Sober, experienced men only. Ad-
dress: THE CRISIS, 26 Vesey
Street, New York City.
Mention The Cbxsis.
110
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
OF INTEREST TO VOCAL STUDENTS
TONE-PLACING AND
VOICE- DEVELOPMENT
Points explained, viz.: Breath
In Singing, Trying the Voice, the
Soprano, the Mezzo-Soprano, the
Contralto, Tenor Leggiero or High
Tenor, the Baritono, the Bass,
Parts of the Vocal Apparatus, the
Mouth, the Tongue, Position When
Practising, Position When Singing,
How to Practice, Good Buies for
Singing.
Comment from the world-renowned conductor of
the Paulist Choir of Chicago, 111., whose choir has
just received the first prize awarded at the Sing-
ing Contest held in Paris on May 25, 1912:
"Dear Mr. Tina ley:
"I take great pleasure in commending your Tory useful and
succinctly written book on Tone-Placing and Voice-Devslop-
■•at.’ Your own appreciation of the psychology of singing
and the fundamental principles of the art you hare cleverly
reduced to a simple system.	Cordially yours,
"Father WILLIAM J. FINN. C. 8. P..
Director Paulist Choristers of Chicago."
From "Musical Courier." N. Y.: "A very practical little
book la *Tone-PIaolng and Voloe-Development,' by Pedro T.
Tlnaley. It contains some very excellent material and vocal
exercise*, and should be in the hands of all vocal students."
From "Music News." Chicago. HL: "Accordingly his
‘Practical Method of Singing’ is a moet concise and practical
little manual, containing many valuable vocal exercises. It
aannot fall to be helpful to all ambitious vocal students."
HELPED HIM GBEATLY
“8ince I practised your exercises of ‘Tone-Placing
and Voice-Development’ my voice is more resonant
than it has been for years. It seems to me that I
am getting a new voice.” Prof. John T. Layton,
Director Coleridge-Taylor Musical Society, 1722 10th
St., N. W., Washington, D. 0.
PRICE $1.00
Address the publisher: PEDRO T. TINSLEY
0448 Drexel Avenue	CHICAGO, ILL.
LEARN TO READ MUSIC AT SIGHT
WHAT THE WORLD IS SAYING ABOUT
Anyone In the "Brass Band" or "Stringed Orchestra"
leam in a few hours to master the Instrument he loves
our "Sight Reador"
$1 (cash). Address
and "Sight Reader Positions."

WILLIAM D. SMITH
1636 Clarion Street..................Philadelphia, Pa.
A
Little
Dreaming”
By
FENTON
JOHNSON
Who is acclaimed by prominent critics, leading
authors and the international preBB sb the foremost
romantic poet and one of the greatest writers of
African strain.
“Praiseworthy in the ways of imagination, mys-
ticism and romance.”—Chicago “Daily News.”
Josephine Turck Baker, editor of “Correct Eng-
lish,” Bays: “When the young poet brought his
verses to me I felt that a now singer had come
among us, singing of love, of passion, of joy and
sorrow, sounding the depths and climbing the
heights. In the brighter passages there exists the
deft touch of the born artist, while in the deeper
moments he makes sentient the emotions of the
soul—a sou 1 that has lived and suffered.”
Published by Peterson Company, Chicago. Vellum
de luxe edition, 75 cents, not, illustrated.
Now running in its second edition.
Agents wanted in colleges, towns and cities.
Address:
CENTRAL DISTRIBUTION STATION
3522 State Street Suite 5 Chicago, 111.
$10.00 A DAY AND MORE
to live agents. 200 per cent, profit. Sells to every
colored man and woman on earth. This is the
quickest kind of easy money. Send 15 cents in
stamps or coin for sample and terms. Money hack
if not satisfied at first glance.
DOUGLAS SPECIALTIES COMPANY
| 3548 Vernon Avenue, Dept. K -	- Chicago, 111.
From the Ballroom to Hell
N01LOWIPRK?ECIAL The Twentieth Century Sensation NOTlov?prk;eCIAL
A new book by ex-dancing master T. A. Faulkner. Explains the natural and
necessary effects of modem dancing, and why thousands of girls arc ruined annually by
Its Influence. Endorsed by the pulpit and press all ovor the country.
HELP SAVE OUR GIRLS
Every man and woman should read this great book. It Bhould bo In every home In
the country. This book sells for $1.50, leather bound. Wo have made a special new lot,
cloth bound, which will enable us to specialize this sensaUonal story at only 50 cents.
Don't delay In sending In your order, as the great Bale has already reduced our stock.
---------------------- ADDRESS-----------------------
ACME PUBLISHING CO., 3eSMS£dSfto
Our special book catalog will be sent FREE with every order
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS
Vol. 7—No. 3	JANUARY, 1914	Wtolc No. 39
SOCIAL UPLIFT.
' I9 HE National Young Womens
A Christian Association in New York
City gave a pageant illustrative of its
various departments and participated in by
1,500	girls. One feature was the excellent
singing of folk songs by about 125 colored
girls. Colored girls also took part in the
pageant given in Brooklyn on November 17,
not as a special feature, but along with the
other girls.
<3 The colored workers in the joint Y. W.
C.	A.-Y. M. C. A. $4,000,000 campaign,
recently carried on in New York City, raised
nearly $50,000. Squire Garner, a colored
butler of New York City, contributed $1,000
to the colored women’s branch. The colored
Y. M. C. A. will receive $150,000 and the
colored Y. W. C. A. $100,000.
<3 The colored people of Kansas, Mo., have
started work on their $100,000 Y. M. C. A.
Of this amount $25,000 was given by Julius
Rosenwald, of Chicago; the colored people
raised $33,000, although they were assessed
only $25,000, and the remainder will be
given from a fund of the central association.
<1 The Negro Organization Society of Vir-
ginia had a cleaning-up day recently all
over Virginia. This society has also pub-
lished a health handbook for colored people,
who have so many problems because of poor
housing conditions which they are compelled
to accept.
<1 Nashville is beginning a campaign to
raise $75,000 for a new $100,000 Y. M.
C.	A. Julius Rosenwald will give $25,000.
<J Miss M. H. Adams will conduct a social
center in Washington, D. C., under the
auspices of the national Baptist women’s
convention. Miss Adams has been doing
slum work in Scotland for the past fourteen
years.
<1 A settlement which is doing good work
was established in East Orange, N. J., seven
months ago by a colored man, William P.
Burrell.
<2 Shaw House, in Boston, has outgrown its
quarters and is putting a large part of the
work for men and boys in the new annex.
This is in charge of the young painter,
Richard L. Brown, who is continuing his art
studies in Boston.
The colored men and women at the Knox
County workhouse, in Tennessee, will soon
be separated as the whites are. Heretofore
the colored men and women have occupied
the same quarters.
<1 During President Wilson’s recent visit
to Mobile, Ala., he reviewed the colored
children of the public and private schools
as they passed before him waving flags and
singing patriotic songs. Following the
children came the members of the Emancipa-
tion Association, who held their celebration
on the same night.
<1 One of the most complete wireless teleg-
raphy outfits in Lincoln, Neb., is owned by
a young.colored man, Perry Van Derzee. He
easily hears messages from all of the sur-
rounding cities, and recently heard the naval
station at Arlington sending out the time.
112
THE CRISIS
<J Dan Crawford, who has spent more than
twenty years in the heart of Africa doing
missionary work, spoke to a large audience
in Philadelphia recently. Mr. Crawford
declared that he would be glad to leave this
so-called civilized country, for tho black men
are intelligent and more moral than their
white brothers.
Q Citizens of Toronto, Ont., held a meeting
in appreciation of Alderman Hubbard, a
colored man who has served in the city
council for twenty years. A picture of
Alderman Hubbard was unveiled and one
of the speakers, President Beck, of the
Hydro-Ele>ctric Company, said that the city
would not be doing its duty unless it eleeted
Alderman Hubbard mayor.
<J Quartermaster-Sergeant James Woodfork,
of the D Troop, 9th Cavalry, with a special
squad of eight, attended the State fair at
Phoenix, Ariz., where he rode an outlaw
horse which the government bought in 1910,
but was unable to use for army service.
Sergeant Woodfork trained him for three
months and is the only person who can ride
him.
•I Captain Taylor, a prominent white lawyer
of Norfolk, Va., succeeded in abolishing
twenty saloons within four blocks occupied
chiefly by colored people. In appreciation
many of the colored citizens of Norfolk have
presented Mr. Taylor with a silver loving
cup.
<1 Ferguson, a colored runner at the Ohio
State University, is a natural-born athlete,
and for his first year out is a marvelous
runner. Not once this year in practice runs,
both in time and competition trials, has he
been forced to take the dust of even the
veterans of the squad. He is a modest and
retiring chap, gifted with brains and a pleas-
ing individuality. He previously attended
the West Virginia Colored Institute at
Institute, W. Va.
<1 Segregation protests have been sent to
the President by the Unitarian conference of
the Middle States and Canada and the
Young Men’s Hebrew Association of Chelsea,
Mass. Bostonians have held several meet-
ings in protest, and the women at the
women’s conference of the Society for
Ethical Culture, in New York City, spoke
strongly against segregation. Mrs. Robert
M. La Follette continued her agitation
against the matter before a recent meeting
of the Twentieth Century Club in Boston.
The Boston section of the Council of
Jewish Women lias deferred its resolution
against segregation until a thorough investi-
gation can be made at the capital.
<3 On November 29, the anniversary of the
birth of Wendell Phillips, every teacher in
the Boston public schools spoke for fifteen
minutes on Phillips’ life and the lessons
which may be derived from it.
*1 Of 400 new sergeants appointed by the
chief of police in Chicago seven were colored
men.
A new baseball league, controlled by
Chicago men and composed entirely of
colored members, will be in the field next
summer.
Five members of the United States Su-
preme Court, including Chief Justice White,
were present at the funeral services of
Archie Lewis, the court’s aged colored mes-
senger, in Washington a short time ago.
The colored citizens of Richmond, Va.,
are soon to have a new park. The location,
however, seems to be undesirable and has
brought forth protest from many of the
colored people.
J.	Alfred Lee, a colored man, was election
judge of Namozine district, New Hope
precinct, Dinwiddie County, Va^ in the
November election.
<1 Arnold Williams, a colored chauffeur, won
the first prize of $500 in an automobile race
in New York City on November 12.
EDUCATION.
rTT HE dining hall and laundry of the
Alcorn Agricultural and Mechanical
College near Rodney, Miss., were burned and
one student died of heart disease.
*1 Mrs. Clara B. Darling, who died in
Wallingford, Conn., last summer, bequeathed
$2,000 to Atlanta University.
<1 At the three days’ session of the general
committee of the Freedmen Aid Society,
which met in Springfield, 111., on November
1, $30,000 was raised to improve Negro
schools in the South.
Howard Medical School was well repre-
sented in the convocation of the College of
Surgeons in America. Five members of the
faculty were present.
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
113
*J County teachers of Muskogee County,
Okla., are said to be unable to draw their
salaries because of the embezzlement of
nearly $70,000 by the county treasurer.
The West Virginia Colored Institute, in
Institute, W. Va., will have a regular six
weeks* summer school, beginning June 15.
*1 The chemical and biological laboratory of
Leonard Medical College, a school for
Negroes in Raleigh, N. C., has been destroyed
by fire. The loss will probably reach
$25,000.
*1 The facilities for the education of Negroes
in South Carolina are exceedingly poor.
With a colored population and school en-
rollment larger than the whites, there are
199 colored schools' in the cities and 332
white schools. The colored children go to
school 67 days and the white children 119
days.
The Beulah School, in Lee County, Ala.,
was built by women and receives no money
from the county. This school is almost
entirely supported by money made on the
school farm which is worked by the students.
The colored citizens of Yonkers, N. Y.,
have asked the educational authorities to
adopt another history for use in the school-
room, as the one now in use holds the Negro
up to ridicule. The colored children find
the significant glances passed among the
white pupils, whenever a certain passage
reflecting upon Negroes is read, very
humiliating.
^ If Mebarry Medical College, Nashville,
succeeds in raising $10,000 Andrew Carnegie
will give the school a like amount.
*3 Virginia Union University has a new
dormitory—Huntley Hall.
<3 Frank Barber has resigned as superin-
tendent of the colored orphan home at
Riverdale-on-the-Hudson, N. Y.
ECONOMICS.
A NUMBER of colored men representing
the Haygood Seminary Electrical
Company have been given the franchise for
lighting Washington, Ark., the town in which
Haygood Seminary, a colored institution, is
located. This is the only franchise to light a
town held by colored men in the United
States.
<3 Brooks, a colored man of Lexington, Ky.,
has the contract for the buildings of the
Kentucky State Normal School and many
of the other big building contracts in the
city.
<3 Lowell W. Baker, who has charge of the
construction of the federal building at Mans-
field, O., and W. W. Cooke, in charge of
federal construction at Bowling Green and
Defiance, O., both colored men, are making
excellent records for themselves in
architecture.
Q Bluff City Savings Bank, of Natchez,
Miss., a colored enterprise, has been closed.
The bank is not insolvent, but the failure of
a white bank in the same town caused a run
upon the colored bank, and it was closed
until the property in which the money was
invested could be converted into cash.
J.	E. Wiley, whose exhibit of a rug loom
was one of the most noticeable things at the
National Emancipation Exposition in New
York City, has just closed a contract by
which the firm of John Wanamaker will
handle his “merlin” rugs as exclusive New
York agents.
<1 The Hannibal Realty and Improvement
Company of America has been organized by
Negroes in New York. The charter granted
by the State permits the company to deal
in real estate, build hotels, theatres, etc.
<1 George Andrews, of Bethel Community,
Tex., is a colored farmer whose wealth is
estimated at about $100,000. Mr. Andrews
is probably the only Negro stockholder and
director of a white bank—the First National
Bank, at Bells, Tex.
Q Colored contractors are doing a large part
of the rebuilding of the section of Hot
Springs, Ark., which was destroyed in the
recent fire there. A white contractor, who
came from New Orleans with a few white
workmen, hired colored men in addition. The
white laborers complained, but were told to
work with the colored men or quit.
<1 The California railroad commission has
refused to allow the Pullman Company to
increase its rates. This, they say, is because
of the low wages paid to porters which
necessitates tips.
Q In the national conservation exposition,
held in Knoxville, Term., during September
and October, the Negroes had a large build-
ing built entirely by colored architects and
laborers.
K.	C. Brown, a colored man, has a lease on
a large hotel in Mt. Clemens, Mich. He will
remodel the hotel and run it for colored
people.
114
THE CRISIS
<J The whole town of Talladega, Ala., is
said to have once been the property of
Joseph Brewer, an ex-slave, and the first
colored man to own any property south of
the Mason and Dixon line.
The Brown Savings and Banking Com-
pany, a colored enterprise of Norfolk, Va.,
publishes its resources as $42,873.
Q The Union Mutual Aid Association, of
Mobile, Ala., and the People’s Mutual Aid
Association, of Birmingham, have consoli-
dated. The progressive Negroes of Alabama
seem to favor consolidation more and more.
Jonas W. Thomas, a Negro of Marl-
borough County, S. C., recently refused
$40,000 for his 1,100-acre farm. Thomas
began farming with an old horse and thirty
acres of farm land which he rented for
1,400 pounds of cotton.
MUSIC AND ART.
T} AVID AND CLARA MANNES, the New
York artists, secured, while in London
this summer, the “Sonata Virgin ianesque,”
by John Powell, formerly of Virginia. The
sonata is in Southern style and is divided
into three phrases: “At the Quarters,” “In
the Woods” and “At the Great House.” Mr.
Mannes has before shown his interest in the
Negro idiom. The Mannes sonata recitals
were very popular in London this summer
and Musical America commented upon the
“remarkable unanimity” of the two artists
as one of the most prominent features of
their playing.
A song recital was given by the tenor,.
Mr. Roland Hayes, on November 5, at
Steinert Hall, Boston, Mass. Mr. Hayes
•was assisted by the excellent pianist, Mr.
Roy Tibbs, of Howard University, Washing-
ton, D. C. Miss Bertha Bauman was the
accompanist. A new song, “I Blow You a
Kiss,” by a Boston composer of color, Mr.
Lovett B. Groves, was among the numbers
on the program.
Charles Wakefield Cadman, the American
composer, has written a brilliant trio for
violin, ’cello and piano, the last movement
of which is said to be “idealized ragtime.”
The three movements are allegro maestoso,
andante cantabile and allegro vivace. The
second is Indian in its thematic character and
the third Negro. The trio' whs played for
the first time at Minneapolis -on October 7,
when Mr. Cadman, assisted by the Indian
mezzo soprano, Princess Tsianina Redfeatherf
of Denver, gave his Indian music talk before
the Thursday Musical Club.
•I The meetings of the American Academy
and the National Institute of Arts and
Letters, held mid-November in Chicago, Ilk*
called forth a presentation by the Chicago
Symphony Orchestra of a program of the
works of American composers. Mr. Chad-
wick, Mr. Foote, Mr. Kelly and Mr. Stock
conducted their own compositions. Elements
which are typically American in the music
of to-day have their origin in the Negro
idiom, and Chadwick with other distinguished
composers have long since taken much of
their inspiration from this source.
*3 At Liverpool, England, the new resident
choral conductor of the Philharmonic
Society, Mr. Harry Evans, received a sig-
nificant welcome upon appearing to conduct
a performance of Coleridge-Taylor’s choral
ballad, “Beside the Ungathered Rice He Lay.”
At an early date, in Yorkshire, England, the
Leeds New Choral Society plan to give “A
Tale of Old Japan” and the first and third
parts of “Hiawatha,” which the London
Musical Times calls a welcome revival.
<1 Mr. Lewis Gamble, a colored cornetist, of
Detroit, Mich., has invented a mute for the
cornet which is in demand by players of
that instrument.
In the colored grammar school of Indian-
apolis, of which Mr. Valentine is supervisor,
a mural decoration has been painted by
William E. Scott, a young artist of Indian-
apolis, who is now studying in France. The
painting illustrates the Mother Goose rhyme
of “The Old Lady Who Lived in a Shoe,”
and was completed last March. The childreu
typifying the characters are all children of
color. Mr. Scott is ambitious to do for the
Negro in art what Paul Laurence Dunbar
did in poetry by the use of the Negro
dialect.
<3 Mme. Anita Patti Brown, coloratura
soprano, sailed on November 8 for Kingston,
Jamaica, where she is to begin a tour of the
West Indian Islands, Panama, Costa Rica
and South America. She was accompanied
by Miss Marion Garner, pianist, Mr. George
Garner, tenor, and Mr. Wyatt Houston,
violinist.
*3 At Cincinnati, O., where the Hare-
Richardson piano and song recital was given
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
115
before a capacity house, the Christ Church
Parish House, the wealthiest church of that
city and the home church of the Tafts, was
opened for the first time to colored artists.
Bishop Vincent, of Ohio, delivered the invo-
cation. According to the criticisms of the
daily press, which spoke- flatteringly of the
art of Mrs. Maud Cuney Hare, pianist, and
Mr. William H. Richardson, baritone, of
Boston, Mass., their tour of engagements
for November and December was a musical
event of note. The tour included cities of
Canada and the West and Pennsylvania and
New York. Of their work the Evening
Record, of Windsor, Ont., said:	“Mrs.
Hare's playing, splendid technique and win-
some manner stamped her as an artist of
high rank. Mr. Richardson is gifted with a
rich baritone voice of excellent range and
purity."
*3 It is said that the colored comedian, Bert
Williams, will appear as Friday, in Robin-
son Crusoe," which will be produced later
in the season by Klaw & Erlanger and
F.	Ziegfeld, Jr.
MEETINGS.
r |1 HERE was a meeting of a few of the
governing heads of the white and
colored Elks in New York City on November
25. This meeting was held for the purpose
of adjusting differences between the white
and colored lodges.
^ The Paul Moss Orphanage out from
Augusta, Gal, was completely destroyed by
fire a short time ago.
<4 The University Commission on Southern
Race Questions held a preliminary meeting
in Richmond, Va., December IS and 19. This
commission is composed of one faculty
representative from each of eleven white
Southern State universities, and was
organized in Nashville, Tenn., at the first
meeting of the Southern Sociological Con-
gress in 1912. Dr. James H. Dillard, direc-
tor of the Jeanes Fund, is the founder of the
commission which has for its purpose the
inducing of Southern people to study and
speak frankly upon the Negro question.
Educators from many parts of the country
were in Washington, D. C., on November 12
and 13, to attend the annual meeting of
teachers in Negro land-grant colleges.
The sixth annual convention of the Alpha
Phi Alpha, national Greek-letter fraternity,
was held in Washington, D. C., at the
seat of the Beta Chapter, December 29-31.
The Kentucky State Association of
Teachers in Colored Schools held its
thirty-fifth annual session in Louisville last
month. Over 400 teachers were present, the
largest attendance in its history.
<3 The Maryland Federation of Women's
Clubs met in Baltimore from October 30 to
November 2. Plans for carrying on con-
structive neighborhood work and for organiz-
ing the women of the counties into clubs
were discussed.
<3 Mrs. Pankhurst spoke to 2,000 colored
men and women in Chicago on November 4,
urging them to work for the reforms which
the white women are working for. After
the lecture an offering was taken for the
cause. The women gave $215 and a double
handful of personal jewels. Mrs. Pankhurst
spoke very pointedly against segregation of
any kind.
CJ The meeting of the State Rural Social
Conference of South Carolina met in
Columbia on November 6.
€ During October and November the Bap-
tists held State conventions in Mobile, Ala.,
Newark, N. J., Tarrytown, N. Y., and Rocky
Mount, N. C.
<3 The Negro Organization Society of Vir-
ginia held its first annual meeting in Rich-
mond last month.
<3 A memorial service for the late Dr. John
R.	Francis was held in Washington, D. C., on
November 24. Secretary of State William
J. Bryan and others spoke.
FOREIGN.
EPORTS from the Philippine Islands
indicate that the treatment of the
colored soldiers is becoming worse and that
when in 1914 and 1915 200 and 600 men,
respectively, have finished their terms of
service there will be few re-enlistments.
<1 The colored women of Bloemfontein, South
Africa, are suffering greatly because of their
refusal to abide by the pass law. Sixty-
one women were sent to jail recently because
they were without passes. The women are
said to receive very harsh treatment while in
prison and are compelled to leave their
children with strangers. Still they hold out.
116
THE CRISIS
<1 The African Political Organization, an
association of the colored people of South
Africa, held its eighth annual meeting in
Kimberly in November. This meeting came
while the native population of South
Africa was greatly disturbed over the native
land act and , the pass law of Bloem-
fontein. Both questions were discussed in
the meeting which was presided over by the
lord mayor, but no definite steps were taken
to alleviate conditions.
Dinuzulu, an African king, greatly loved
by tbe people, but deposed and exiled by the
English government some years ago, died
recently.
*1 About 150,000 East Indian workmen in
Natal, South Africa, are on strike. This
was brought about by two recent incidents:
the flogging to death of one of the laborers
and the arrest of 2,000 East Indians who
attempted to cross the Transvaal into Natal.
This was against the law prohibiting 'the
emigration of Asiatics from one State to
another. Industry is practically paralyzed,
as East Indians are the chief laborers in
Natal.
Twenty-four Calcutta Hindus arriving
at Victoria, B. C., were deported because
they did not comply with the. immigration
law which provides that- immigrants must
make a continuous journey from the land
of their birth. These immigrants had
transshipped at Hongkong. The Hindu
population is protesting.
THE CHURCH.
ST. MARK’S Methodist Episcopal Church,
in New York City, has purchased a
livery stable next door to the church which
will be converted into a recreation home for
the young people of the church. This church
has also recently bought a house in New
Rochelle, N. Y., which will be used for an
old folks’ home.
William W. Borden, a young graduate of
Princeton Theological Seminary, died in
Cairo a short time ago and left a bequest of
$50,000 for mission work in Africa. Mr.
Borden was a man of great wealth and had,
in the course of his life, done much for
missions.
<3 A small Negro Baptist church in Wathen,
on tbe Congo River in Africa, established
fifty-two new outposts in one year and sup-
ports 196 evangelists.
<1 Miss Eliza Davis, of Texas, a graduate
of Seguin College, and Rev. James T.
Simpson, of Pennsylvania, a graduate of the
theological department of Rochester Semi-
nary and a soldier in the regular army in the
Philippine Islands for three years, sailed in
December for Africa as missionaries for the
foreign mission board of the national Baptist
convention.
<J Miss Caroline G. Ewen, of New York City,
bequeathed $40,000 to the foreign mission
board of the national Baptist convention.
<3 At the meeting of the Methodist missionary
board in Decatur, 'll!., almost a million dol-
lars was appropriated for foreign missions.
Africa will receive $50,229, the smallest
single appropriation.
THE COURTS.
MARY E. SCOTT, a white woman of
Chicago, and Hattie Jones, a colored
girl who works for her, are suing the Moving
Picture Company of Illinois for $300
damages apiece because they were not allowed
to use the box-seat tickets which Miss Scott
had purchased earlier. Seats in the gallery
were offered the two women. When Miss
Scott complained to the manager he suggested
that she go in alone and see the performance,
as his white patrons did not care to sit in
boxes with colored people. The case has not
yet been decided.
<3 As a result of the whipping of two colored
convicts in New Castle, Del., Repre-
sentative Evans, of Montana, presented a
resolution to bring injunction proceedings
against the State of Delaware to enforce
constitutional prohibition of inhuman treat-
ment. The resolution was blocked by
adjournment.
<3 William J. Banks, of Pittsburgh, a for-
mer Pullman porter, who sued the Pennsyl-
vania Railroad for $10,000 for injuries
received in a wreck four years ago, has been
given a verdict of $1,250. In contrast is
the decision confirmed by the Supreme Court
of Mississippi granting a white woman large
damages for being compelled to remain in a
coach in which there were three colored
bishops.
Butler Searcy, a prominent white farmer
of Butler County, Ala., was accused of hold-
ing Walsh Garnder, a colored man, in peon-
age. In the face of conclusive evidence of
the white man’s guilt the jury reported a
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
117
mistrial. Judge William P. Sheppard
reprimanded the jury very severely, censur-
ing them for taking their prejudices into the
jury room. On hearing the judge’s rebuke
Searcy arose volqntarily and pleaded guilty.
<J The widow of Norman Weaver, a colored
man, received a verdict of $875 for the death
of her husband. Weaver was shot by a
policeman while attempting to escape arrest
as a chicken-thief suspect. The court up-
held the law which says that under no circum-
stances can a police officer shoot to kill a
person charged with a misdemeanor.
*1 Preston Jones, a colored man, who was
sentenced to die for the murder of Sam. E.
Hickey, has been granted a new trial.
<3 George Howe, a colored resident of 95
Harford Avenue, Baltimore, in an attempt
to protect his home, fired into a crowd which
was bombarding his house and wounded four
men. He has been acquitted.
<3 A short time ago three white men, before
the grand jury of Kent, O., were fined $40
each for carrying concealed weapons.
Another white man was given twenty years
for shooting with intent to kill. A colored
man, before the same jury, was given fifteen
years for stealing 86 cents.'
*3 The first case to be tried for the alleged
violation of the Baltimore segregation law
was dismissed. The charge was brought
against Edward Lee, a colored man, who was
charged with moving into a white block since
the ordinance was passed.
<3 The decision of the coroner’s jury in
exonerating Charles C. Guth, a white man
of Baltimore, from the charge of killing his
colored chauffeur has been confirmed by
the grand jury.
THE GHETTO.
TTP to this time segregation ordinances
have been passed in Baltimore, Md.,
Richmond, Norfolk, Roanoke, Danville and
Ashville, Va. An ordinance has been intro-
duced in St. Louis and agitation is being
carried on in Kansas City, Mo., Louisville,
Ky., New Orleans, La., and Birmingham,
Ala.
<2 The accusation was made that one of the
officials of the Boston Y. M. C. A. was
attempting to draw the color line. When the
matter was referred to the board of directors
this body stated very positively that member-
ship with all of its privileges was open to all,
regardless of race or color.
<J Rather than observe the color line in foot-
ball, the University of Nebraska has with-
drawn from the Missouri Valley association.
The Georgia State Federation of Women’s
Clubs has filed a petition asking the State
railroad commission for better accommoda-
tions. The complaint states that one-half of
the coach set aside for colored passengers is
partitioned off for a smoker; convicts and
insane people occupy the colored coaches;
the porter sweeps while the coach is occu-
pied, spreading germs; the news butcher or
conductor occupies the only double seat in
the coach and there is,- with few exceptions,
but one lavatory in the colored section.
Q Baltimore has amended its segregation
ordinance with the provision that colored
churches, dance halls, schools, etc., shall not
be located in white blocks and vice versa.
Q The Central Railroad of New Jersey has
adopted “Jim Crowism” in the lunchroom
at Jersey City. Recently B. F. Selden, a
colored man, was informed that he must take
his luncheon in a secluded part of the room
which had been set aside for colored patrons.
Mr. Selden has complained to the authorities
and it is said that already some of the
colored patrons of the Jersey Central have
gone over to the Pennsylvania road, where
they meet with no discrimination.
<1 James Malone and John McCarthy, two
white men, were awarded $2,950 damages
for being compelled to travel from Hunting-
ton, W. Va., to Louisville, Ky., in a coach
with colored people.
CJ Colored teachers in Washington, D. C.,
for the first time have been excluded from
the lectures to teachers in the Congregational
Church, a church established by New
Englanders and worshiped in by them.
<3 In the Interior Department at Washing-
ton, D. C., there were plans on foot for a
“home club,” to be opened to all employees.
The colored employees were present at the
meetings for organizing the club and now
the white employees are anxious to drop the
plan altogether.
•} Charges have been made before the city
council against the discrimination in picture
theatres in Los Angeles.
118
THE CRISIS
Q The Chocolate Shop, of Pasadena, Cal.,
has been complained of to the board of trade
for discriminating against two Japanese.
Q Four of the members of the mob which
attempted to lynch Will Fair in Spartan-
burg, S. C., have been named for prosecu-
tion and the others are being searched for.
<J Grady Lane, a white man of Raleigh,
N. C., has been sentenced to hang for the
murder of George McCain, a colored mail
clerk. Lane is the first white man who has
been sentenced to die for the murder of a
Negro in North Carolina.
Carl- Oliver, a colored man of Franklin
County, Tex., has appealed to the Supreme
Court to set aside the death penalty imposed
upon him for the murder of T. D. Stanley,
a white man. Oliver claims that he killed
Stanley because he found him in his house.
The counsel for the colored man claimed that
the trial court erred in refusing to charge
the jury that a Negro is entitled to the same
rights in defending his home and honor as a
white man would be under the same
circumstances.
*1 Last month we mentioned the fact that
the Y. M. C. A. in Newport, R. I., had
refunded the membership fees for unexpired
time to the colored members and asked them
to withdraw. Since then the Negroes of
Newport have investigated the matter and
found that the new secretary had acted on
no authority except his own and no action
had been taken by the board of directors as
was stated. A special meeting of the board
was held to act upon the protest from the
colored people and a few days later the boys
received word to return.
Dr. H. F. Harris, of Anniston, Ala.,
moved into a beautiful home in a section
of the city which is occupied chiefly by
colored people, but which had a few white
renters. Dynamite was set off in his back
yard at about 2 o’clock in the morning as a
warning. Dr. Brown refused to move, how-
ever, and supplied himself well with
ammunition. The white people have moved
out.
Joshua W. Bailey, collector of internal
revenue in the eastern North Carolina dis-
trict, discharged a colored laborer, Patrick
Norwood, who immediately appealed to
Washington for reinstatement. The Wash-
ington authorities held that the employee
was protected by the civil-service rules and
ordered his reinstatement, whereupon Mr.
Bailey sent in his resignation.
CRIME.
rTTHE lynchings are as follows: At
Dyersburg, Tenn., John Talley, an
18-year-old colored youth, charged with
criminal assault upon a white woman.
•3 At Wewoka, Okla., John Cudjo, for kill-
ing John Dennis, a white sheriff. lie was
hung in the courtyard and his body riddled
with shot. A placard was tied to the man’s
foot on which was written: “To the memory
of Lee Cruce,” the governor who has shown
some fairness to Negroes.
<3! At Tunica, Miss., Albert Coopwood, for
killing his wife and wounding two white men.
He was hiding in a hut and some member of
the posse shot into the hut and killed him
and then set fire to the hut.
<3 Robert Ganett, a Negro charged with
attempting to attack a white woman, barely
escaped lynching in Somerset, Ky.
Elizabeth M. Jeter, a 14-year-old colored
girl, of Kingsbridge, N. Y., was assaulted by
two well-known white married men of that
place, John Koshoe and Joe Zitz. The child
was attacked at 238th Street .and Bailey
Avenue as she was going along the lonely
road flanked on one side by a stretch of
woods. Several of the district officers doubted
the child’s story and took no immediate steps
toward apprehending the criminals. Mr.
Jeter found a cap on the scene of the outrage
belonging to one of the men and this served
for identification. The case is now in the
hands of the Gerry Society, which has three
detectives on it. The men were given plenty
of time to get away through the failure of
the policemen to act. One has been arrested
in Camden, N. J., and is held there awaiting
extradition orders from the governor, and
John Koshoe is thought to be hiding in New
York City. The two officers who delayed the
case have been suspended without pay to
await trial.
<1 Ada Ross, a colored girl of New Albany,
Ind., has taken out a warrant for Rev.
C. E. Elmore, a white minister of that city,
for criminal assault. She was attacked by
him when she went to his house in the
evening to do domestic work. The minister
claims that his house was robbed that night
and that it was most probably the thief whom
Miss Ross mistook for him.
IN THE SADDLE!
A COLORED MAYOR IN LONDON.
>^CR. J. R. ARCHER, an Englishman, has
*** *“• been elected mayor of .Battersea.
Battersea has a population of nearly 200,000
people and covers 2,100 acres in the city
of London, south of the Thames. Mr.
Archer is a photographer and has lived in
Battersea for twenty
years. He is married to
a colored woman and be-
gan his political life in
1906, when he helped to
put John Burns in Parlia-
ment and was himself
elected a member of the
London eounty council.
He is a member of the
Progressive party and has
been interested in carry-
ing through a minimum
wage scheme and other
.progressive policies. The
London . Daily Chronicle
found Mr. Archer with the
“well-dressed and ' well-
groomed appearance” of a
“busy and prosperous
business man.”
Mr. Archer said:
“Of course, I am a man
of color. I do not wish to
deny the fact, though
many an Englishman is
darker in appearance. But
why should that be any
bar to my filling the
office of mayor T I have the confidence of
the people, who have sent me to sit on the
borough council- and the board of guardians.
Why should there be any suggestion that I
cannot carry ofit the work of a higher
position T
“I do not say that there is any opposition
to me on the score of color, even among
my political and municipal opponents, but
since it has been suggested that this may
be allowed to weigh in the matter I must
face it. Why allow a colored man to rise
to a certain position in municipal affairs,
and then say: ‘You must go no higher*? Is
that to be the end of all that England has
done to free and raise and
educate the colored
peoples? It does not seem
logical.”
The voters of Battersea
appear to agree with Mr.
Archer.
MB. J. B. ABCHEB.
A COLLEGE PRESIDENT.
R.	BYRD PRILLER-
MAN, president of
the West Virginia Colored
Institute, was born a
slave in Franklin County,
Va., October 19,	1859.
After the close of the war,
when 8 years of age, he
walked, with his parents,
from Franklin County,
Va., to Kanawha County,
W. Va., a distance of 250
miles. Here he grew up
on a farm near Charleston,
the capital of the State.
He attended the rural
schools from the time he
was 12 years of age
until 20, when he began
to teach. In 1883 he entered Knoxville
College, and was graduated from the college
course of this institution in 1889. In 1895
Westminster College, of Pennsylvania, con-
ferred upon him the degree of M. A. When
the West Virginia Colored Institute opened
in 1892 he was appointed as one of the first
teachers. He was promoted to the presi-
MEN OF THE MONTH
121
.	MBS. J. R. ARCHER.
dency September 23, 1909. Under his
administration the enrollment has increased
from 235 to 336 students.
m
A COLORED TEACHER.
lyjTISS DORA J. HOLMES, a young
**■ -*** colored woman, has been appointed a
teacher in the third grade of the schools of
Haverhill, Mass. Miss Holmes was born in
Boston June 18, 1893, and educated in the
Boston common schools. She was graduated
from the Haverhill high school in 1910,
and afterward from the Lowell normal school.
Her father, Mr. Robert B. Holmes, is
steward of the Wachusett Club.
A USEFUL LIFE.
*V/TISS EUGENIA A. McINTYRE, who
**■ died recently in New York City, was
for many years a teacher in St. Philip’s
Episcopal Sunday school and a member of
several of the societies of the church. She
was employed by Davis & Sanford, photo-
graphers, on Fifth Avenue, and was one of
the six children of the late Robert F.
McIntyre. Miss McIntyre’s life was typical
of the quiet, hard-working colored girl who
is doing so much in unintmsive ways to
solve human problems.
A LIEUTENANT IN LIBERIA.
R. WILLIAM H. YORK was born in
■** Springfield, 111., thirty years ago.
He was graduated from Wilberforce Univer-
sity in 1912, where for two years he was
captain in the student battalion. Before
this he had seen military service in the
Philippines and had traveled in Cuba,
Hawaii and Japan. Last month Mr. York
was appointed a lieutenant in the Liberian
forces under Major Charles Young. Mr.
York has already left for his new work.
A NEW PROFESSION.
rTTHE increasing demand for expert teach-
ers of physical education in colleges,
Young Men’s and Women’s Christian Asso-
ciations, public schools and recreation cen-
ters has developed a new profession—the
director of physical education.
William H. J. Beckett, physical director
of the Young Men’s Christian Association
of Washington, D. C., is a pioneer in this
MB. BYRD PRTLLERMAN.
MIS8 D. J. HOLMES,
MEN OF THE MONTH
123
new and growing profession. He has re-
ceived a degree from the secretarial depart-
ment of the International Y. M. C. A.
College and from the department of physi-
cal education.
In recognition of his work the University
of Pennsylvania this year granted him a
scholarship in its department of physical
education.
Mr. Beckett has filled the positions of
instructor of physical training in the Balti-
more colored high school, supervisor of the
city playgrounds in Baltimore, supervisor
of physical training in the colored public
schools and instructor of gymnastics in the
Sumner High School of St. Louis, and is
now physical director of the Young Men's
Christian Association in Washington, D. C.
He is a member of the American Physical
Education Association, Physical Directors’
Society of the Young Men’s Christian Asso-
ciations of North America and Physical
Directors’ Society of Public Schools.
m
A SOLICITOR-GENERAL.
ONE of the highest offices in the island of
Barbadoes is held by the Hon. H.
Walter Reece, solicitor-general. Mr. Reece
was educated at Cambridge University,
England, and at Temple Bar. His wife was
also educated in England, but both were born
in Barbadoes. We present a picture-of Mr.
and Mrs. Reece and their interesting family
of six children.
Mr. Reece, as solicitor-general, is in line
for promotion to the chief justiceship of
Barbadoes. It will be remembered that the
late Sir Conrad Reeves, chief justice of the
island, was a colored man and received the
honor of knighthood.
THE HON. H. WALTER REECE AND FAMILY.
SEGREGATION. The	°f the COUnlr>' m
continuing to talk about seg-
regation and yet as the Farmer, of Bridge-
port, Conn., says concerning the action of
the Connecticut Congregationalists:
“The resolutions have attracted almost no
attention. An incident of this kind goes to
show how little the average person cares
what is done to the Negro.”
The jEvening Post contrasts the Presi-
dent’s action in two celebrated cases:
“Mr. Wilson’s action in the Pankhurst
case is in glaring contrast to his treatment
of the Negro in the government service. It
is one of the most difficult problems the
President—any President—has to handle,
and it is intensified in Mr. Wilson’s case by
the fact that he is himself Southern born,
that half of his Cabinet is Southern, and that
Southerners dominate in Congress. It is all
the more remarkable, therefore, that in
handling, it Mr. Wilson has been led into
some initial blunders not in keeping with
his usual political instinct and sagacity,
with the result that one of the conservative
leaders of the race has recently declared
that never before had he seen the colored
people so aroused arjd embittered.”
New England, and particularly Boston,
has shown considerable feeling in the matter.
The Boston Advertiser has had several long
editorials. In one it says:
“The excessive hurry of the*. Southern
members of the Cabinet to demonstrate that-
‘the South is in the saddle’ at Washington,
has seriously embarrassed the administration.
Possibly as the result of the hasty orders of
President Wilson, a few cases of outrageous
segregation at Washington have been cor-
rected, for the time being; but in most cases
the matter has gone too far to be remedied,
now, even if the administration were really
anxious to restore the old order of things.
The chief anxiety, now, seems to be not to
create too great a public scandal, for the
orders for the discharge of colored clerks
still accumulate, wherever it appears that
not much public excitement is likely to
follow.”
In another it declares “that probably the
only possible explanation” of President
Wilson’s attitude “is that of early environ-
ment, and the traditions of his youth. He is
by birth a Southerner, and it is plain enough
that the race prejudice, which is an estab-
lished and inviolable -tradition in the South,
was inherited by Woodrow Wilson, as a boy,
to an extent which still tinges his. views^of
men and things. In this respect, and to this
extent, he is as thoroughly imbued with race
bigotry as Yardaman or Tillman. He be-
lieves it to be a shocking thing that a white
man and a colored man should breathe the
air of the same room. The ‘Jim Crow’ idea
is, to him, the only sensible idea that a white
man can take in his treatment of the Negro.
He seems as rabidly prejudiced as' any
Southern brigadier to be found in
Washington.”
The Boston Evening Record .calls atten-
tion to the way in which this agitation is
lining up the Negroes’ friends and enemies:
“The agitation over the segregation of
Negroes in the Federal departments at
Washington is serving the purpose of test-
ing, as it has not been tested in many years,
the sentiment of white persons regarding
Negroes, as a personal issue, not simply as
a general principle of justice. The mass
meeting to be held in Washington will further
drive this test home. It is good to exalt the
fine principles of brotherhood and the rights
of man, and it will spice that exaltation with
sincerity if men will set the personal
example of fairness in treatment of Negroes
everywhere—here in Boston as well as
elsewhere.”
OPINION
125
Governor Foss, of Massachusetts, has
written the President, saying:
WI know that I voice the sentiment of
Massachusetts when I express the hope that
the national government will not countenance
race discrimination in any form.*’
‘‘It is a humiliating confession for Tampa
that a crime like that can be committed in
broad daylight and near the principal
thoroughfare, and the criminal get away be-
fore any of our numerous and expensive
police department or our large and also
expensive sheriff's corps can get to him-”
lynching- Mr. Booker T. Washington is
sending out from time to time
letters congratulating the country on its
record in lynchings. Even his professional
optimism, however, is not able to get much
satisfaction out of the recent record. He
says:
“At the end of six months of the present
year there had been# twenty-four lynchings.
At the end of ten months (November 1)
there had been forty-five lynchings, a reduc-
tion of four, as compared with the same
period for 1912. Within the last four
months, July, August, September and
October, since I last called attention to the
subject, there have been twenty-one lynch-
ings, making a total, as I have said, of
forty-five lynchings for ten mouths. Of this
number only seven individuals, or 1.5 per
cent., were charged with rape.”
The Memphis Commercial-Appeal says of
one of the latest lynchings:
“The fall lynching season has opened, and
unfortunately a West Tennessee town was
the scene of the first affair.
“Court was in session, the attorney-
general was near, and so also was the circuit
judge. The mob took the Negro out of jail
and lynched him in the shadow of the
courthouse.
“When those men built that courthouse,
by this fact they expressed their willingness
that in it should be a tribunal which should
pass upon the life or death of all who break
the law.
“They not only lynched the Negro, but
they lynched the law.”
The kind of crime which shows the lynch-
ing spirit is thus commented on by the
Tampa (Fla.) Morning Tribune:
“Another brutal murder has stained the ^
record of Tampa—and the murderer walks
away from the prominent scene of his crime,
near the business center of the city, without
arrest.
“A party of drunken hoodlums, seeking
‘sport,' accost an inoffensive Negro and
one of them shoots him dead—‘just for fun.'
THE COLORED
SOLDIER.
The Mexican troubles have
caused the transfer of cer-
tain colored regiments to the
border. A colored Pittsburgh paper says:
“If the department would devote as much
time to the defense of the Negro soldiers in
time of peace as when war is approaching,
there might be a more patriotic spirit
among the ‘boys.' It seems to be the special
privilege of the colored boys to open war
for ‘their country.'
“Time after time the Negroes of this
country have petitioned the department for
better treatment of the colored boys in
uniform. We have called attention to the
tendency at Washington to ignore the just
complaints of the Negro soldier, but nothing
seems to attract attention until the black boys
are needed to open hostilities for Uncle Sam.
“There is no doubting the fact that the
Negro soldier is superior to any other man
in the service. His record shows that be-
yond* dispute; and there is no justification
for discriminating against him in time of
peace and making a hero out of him in time
of impending war. If he is a hero on the
battlefield, let him have the treatment and
consideration of a hero at all times. His
bravery is worth as much in time of peace
as in war. His loyalty cannot be questioned;
let him have the protection of the flag he
defends.”
The Chicago Evening Post has this
paragraph:
“The Tenth Cavalry, a Negro regiment,
is to be transferred from Fort Ethan Allen,
in Vermont, to the Mexican border. ‘There
is no color line in the service when the pros-
pect of trouble appears,' remarks the New
York World. Which has an ironic pathos
that is perfectly justifiable. Yet it is not
only colored soldiers who are thought little
of in peace and esteemed most highly in
time of war. ‘It's Tommy, this, and
Tommy, that,' sang Mr. Sapling. ‘And
chuck him out, the Brute. But it's please
to walk in front, sir, when the guns begin
to shoot.'"
126
THE CRISIS
...	More injury is done the Negro
insulting race through the use of instilt-
TfcKirR.	ing- terms than throngh direet
attaek. Many prominent papers, for
instance, persist in refusing to capitalize
the word “Negro.” The mere fact that they
ean make a certain logical defense of their
usage is absolutely worthless when eon-
fronted by the undoubted fact that 10,000.000
people consider themselves insulted by this
act. The London School Government
Chronicle says editorially:
“From a correspondent in the United
States comes an appeal to all people in the
native land of the English language to take
thought upon the importance of little things,
as they may seem to be, in the practice of
writing, with particular reference to one
apparently little thing in the customary use
or neglect of capital letters. Especially the
appeal is for the ear of teachers and of pub-
lic writers of all sorts and conditions. Asso-
ciated as he is with the work of the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored
People, our American friend is conscious of
reasons which are much more than senti-
mental or pedantic for asking that we should
teach ourselves and other people to place the
word ‘Negro’ on equal terms with other race
names in our use of the capital first letter.
It counts among the hindrances to the work of
those who are trying to raise the status of the
colored man, to open for him a fair way of
self-respecting effort for his own improve-
ment, that in the old country’, as well as in
the United States—in fact, wherever the
English language is written or printed—
‘Negro* is nearly always given with a small
‘el* It is bad enough that this happens in
the new countries; it is comprehensive if
not excusable in those countries where the
existence of great and growing colored
populations amidst the white man’s civiliza-
tion is the source of difficult social and
political problems. But it is, from the
standpoint of this correspondent and his
fellow workers, even worse, in some respects*
that the use of the small ‘n’ should prevail
among those who live at the fountain head
of what has become and is becoming the
language not of one race or nation, but of
many. For a special sanction goes naturally
with English usage in such a matter; from
which it springs that, less than the usage
current in any other English-speaking
country, can it be right or wrong to itself
alone. Yet our friend points to some evi-
dence that there has been in recent times an
aetjial relapse in the usage of our own
publie press from the capital back to the
small letter—that certain of our great
periodicals, at any rate, which a few years
ago were printing the word ‘Negro/ as they
print ‘English* and ‘Englishman/ ‘French’
and ‘Frenchman/ ‘Arab/ ‘Kaffir/ or ‘Hot-
tentot/ have reverted to ‘negro* both for
substantive and adjective. Whereas in
America the movement in literary usage is
rather toward the capital ‘N.* To us it
seems that his argument has only to be
heard to be accepted. On anthropological,
philological and literary grounds it seems
unanswerable except by compliance; and as
for the sociological a^d political connec-
tions of the question, there surely is no need
to affront the adherents of any theory or
practice concerning the relations of white
and colored people by supposing that the
small ‘n* has any purpose to serve as aD
expression of their ideas. No doubt the
truest short explanation of the usage, and
certainly the most appropriate, would be to
say that, like the immortal Topsy, it
‘growed.* The word ‘Negro/ for many
reasons which could be offered, grew into
uses which are quite beyond its proper
racial application. Many of' those reasons
are obsolete; others are decadent. And the
word is wanted nowadays for its own proper
purposes and in its proper form, which
obviously is ‘Negro* with a capital ‘N.* For
all that it may effect we will promise vigi-
lance in amendment of our own practice, and
for all the weight that it may carry with
our friends in the colleges, in the schools, in
public and private life and service, in
various spheres of literary expression, we
will venture to commend our corre-
spondent’s friendly and generous appeal.**
In our own land the following corre-
spondence has taken place:
“Cleveland, O., November 1, 1913.
“Mr. Erie C. Hopwood, managing editor,
the Cleveland Plain Dealer:
“Dear Sir :
“The enclosed clipping is from this
morning’s Plain Dealer. Of the several
daily papers in this city, it is regarded in
the most friendly spirit by my people and
is read by more of them than any other daily
paper. This is the result of its fairness, as
a rule, in its references to them and its
uniformly broad-minded treatment of mat-
ters of prime interest to them.
OPINION
127
“The mongrel word ‘darky* is almost as
objectionable to them as that other most
miserable one, ‘Nigger.* Both terms or
mongrel words, and others somewhat similar,
are regarded by the intelligent of my people
just as the intelligent Jews regard the like
mongrel term or word, ‘sheeny,* when applied
to them; the Irish, ‘miek,* when applied to
them, etc.
“I take it that the Plain Dealer is too high
class and excellent a newspaper to permit
the use of any of these mongrel terms or
words. I am, therefore, calling your atten-
tion to the enclosed clipping, with the hope
that those of us who prefer the Plain
Dealer to any other local daily newspaper
may continue our kindly feeling and prefer-
ence for it.
“Yours very tr^ly,
“Harry C. Smith.”
“Cleveland, 0., November 6, 1913.
“Hon. Harry C. Smith, Editor Gazette.
“My Dear See:
“I am very glad you were kind enough to
write me on November 1, and call our atten-
tion to the use of the word ‘darky* as being
objectionable to many of your people. I
am frank to say that I did not know that the
word was objectionable. It had always
appealed to me as a word which indicated
affection and real kindly sentiment existing
between the people of the South and the
colored race. I shall, however, request our
men not to use the word.
“I thank you for your kind expressions in
regard to the Plain Dealer. I trust you
appreciate the fact that the Plain Dealer
is anxious to do anything in its power to
promote the advancement and progress of
your people, that it would not willingly use
a word or do a thing which even by inuendo
might do an injury or bring in any degree
into disrepute so worthy a class of our
population.
“Yours very truly,
“Erie C. Hopwood,
“Managing Editor.”
a
THE NOBEL The ^ew Tork Evening Post
prize	prints some of the poems of
Rabindra Nath Tagore, the
Hindu poet, to whom recently was awarded
the Nobel prize for literature. This is the
first time that this prize has been awarded to
any person not of the white race.
One of the quoted poems, “The Brahmin,**
tells of a schoolboy who was asked about
his parentage:
There came Satyakama. He bowed low at the
feet of the Sage, and stood silent.
11 Tell me,** the great teacher asked him, *1 of
what clan art thouf**
“My lord,** be answered, “1 know it not.
My mother said when I asked her, ‘I
had served many masters in my youth,
and thou hadst come to thy mother
Jab ala’s arms, who had no husband.* **
Then rose a murmur like the angry hum of
bees disturbed in their hive; and the
students muttered their wrath at the
shameless insolence of the outcast waif.
Master Gautama rose from his seat, stretched
out his arms, took the boy to his
bosom, and said: “Best of all Brah-
mins art thou, my child. Thou hast the
noblest heritage of truth.7 ’
The works of Tagore were hardly known
outside of Ipdia until recently, when a few
were translated into English.
PAIRS AND
EXPOSITIONS.
The phenomena] progress of
the colored American is con-
tinually being brought to the
notice of the public by the various annual
fairs and the recent larger expositions. A
correspondent of the London Daily Mail,
traveling in Louisiana, writes of the colored
State fair. He says of the colored patrons:
“Many of them were like well-to-do busi-
ness men or shopkeepers and their wives.
The girls were daintily ‘shirt-waisted* and
white-skirted. I noticed several black nuns,
and a well-equipped emergency hospital for
cases of fainting and the like was in charge
of black nurses in regulation uniform. A
large number of the married folk had
children with them. Almost everyone behaved
and talked quietly. The scene offered itself
as an interesting comment upon the effort
which is being made to induce the Supreme
Court of the United States to disallow certain •
racial distinctions which are made in the
South and West.**
An editorial in the Raleigh (N. C.) News-
Observer says:
“The Negro State Fair, which was held
in Raleigh this week, was an altogether
creditable one. and it marks the progress
which has been made by the race in the fifty
years which have passed since its emancipa-
tion, as well as the underlying structure of
the treatment of the race in the days when
it was held in slavery.
128
THE CRISIS
“That the Negro is prospering in the
South is shown each year by the fail's which
are held in this and other States by the
members of that race. And one mark of
this is in the very conduct of the fairs, in
the way in which the business is transacted.
The Negro is becoming more businesslike in
his methods, and he is showing this in the
way in which the business matters of the
fairs are handled, as well as in the way
in which he is transacting business for him-
self generally.
“The appearance of the Negroes in attend-
ance at the State fair has improved year by
year, and this improvement is as noticeable
as is that shown in their exhibits.’ This
improvement is in dress and in general con-
duct, and it may be termed an improvement
in self-respect, an improvement which is
altogether creditable. The more of this that
there is the better it is for the general
progress of the race.”
A correspondent in the New York
Evening Post tells of the Mississippi fair:
“The managers of the Mississippi State
Fair, recently held in Jackson, the capital,
some months ago determined to give Negro
exhibitors a larger opportunity than has been
theirs in years past. They permitted the
erection of a Negro building by Negro con-
tractors, encouraged exhibits largely from
Negro schools, but also individual exhibitors,
and also designated the last two of the ten
days of the fair as Negro days, with pro-
vision for a Negro parade and mass meeting
addressed by speakers of both races, athletic
contests, a declamation contest and, in
general, emphasis upon Negro work and
life in Mississippi.
“The results have been altogether happy.
The Negro building was filled to overflowing
with exhibits altogether creditable, largely
from Negro schools, but also from individual
’ exhibitors.
“The Negro parade, said to have been a
mile long, and to have included about 5,000
Negroes, with double that number looking
on, was a surprise, not to say an
astonishment, in the eyes of both Negroes
and white people. It included floats, illus-
trative of phases of Negro progress since
emancipation, sections of Negro school
children and thousands of plain citizens;
was orderly, impressive, and by its general
good management proved the organizing
capacity pf Negro leadership.
“Concerning it. the Jackson Daily News
commented:	‘Negro day at the State fair
has simply knocked the spots out of any
feature that the white patrons of the big
institution have pulled off this year—or
almost any year, for that matter. The
parade, shortly before the noon hour, was
hardly short of a sensation. To say that
it created astonishment among the white
folks is expressing it very mildly. Honestly,
you’ve got to hand it to the colored folks.
They have set an example of civic pride,
enthusiasm in behalf of the State fair, and
pride for tbeir native State that white folks
could well emulate.’ ”
The Outlook, speaking of the National
Emancipation Exposition in New York, says:
“As a matter of fact, what the black man
really wants is a chance to do something for
himself; and what he has done with the
chances he has had was well shown in this
expbsition.
“The main emphasis was laid on Negro
art, music and manufacturing and agricul-
tural industry. But charts advising the
people as to sanitary conditions and health,
the ravages of consumption and the heavier
mortality among colored people than whites
were intermingled with displays of vege-
tables and fruits, exhibitions of dressmaking,
or a working model of some cotton mill.
One of the most interesting booths was that
of the Patent Office, showing the inventions
that had been made by colored skill and
ingenuity. The pageant of the historical
development of the race, beginning with the
life in the African jungle and passing
through the slave days on Southern planta-
tions up to their present industrial and
educational level, was an impressive spec-
tacle, both from a historical point of view
and as a forecast.”
m
EDUCATION Many Pe°Ple wh0 inS'St th8t
.and work. the race Problem is simply a
comparatively unimportant
matter of personal likes and dislikes
would do well to pay careful atten-
tion to certain economic and educational
movements which mean a great deal. For
instance, before the Southern Educational
Association, which met in Nashville in
November, J. R. Guy, a white “vocational
director” in the public schools of Charleston,
S.	C., made the following significant state-
ments in the course of his speech:
OPINION
129
“Negro education is a distinctive type of
education and should be treated as such.
The Negro must be taught to work. It is
more important at this stage of his develop-
ment that he be taught to work than it is
that he be taught to read. He must be shown
that manual labor is elevating and honorable,
for many believe it to be menial and degrad-
ing. We must go still further. After seeing
that Negroes are trained in the pursuits best
suited to ,them, we must put restrictions on
their entrance into vocations or professions
for which they are not qualified.”
The Public Ledger comments on the
Florida statute mentioned last month:
“Since reconstruction time,” it says, “for-
tunately, colored teachers have been trained
and Negro leaders themselves are foremost in
desiring pedagogues of their own race, but
to deprive the race of instruction by white
people, to penalize and declare illegal any
productive education whatever, by racial
limitations, is monstrous.
“The enactment does not reflect intelligent
public opinion in the South. It reflects no
intelligence of any kind. In so far as it
attempts to control education by private
endowment it is obviously unconstitutional.
It is, moreover, unnecessary legislation, for
white teachers are now a rarity in Negro
schools, their activities generally being
supervisory or exercised in institutions of
higher rank, in which competency higher
than that usually possessed by colored in-
structors is required. It is prejudice run
mad to shut the door of opportunity in any
such manner.
“Stupid legislation of this kind brings the
South into disrepute, which is the more
regrettable in that the better classes there
are not inimical to Negro progress, but are
more intent on it and in a more practical
way than any other people in the land. The
law should be overtly disregarded and a test
case carried to the Supreme Court of the
United States for a decision. The statute,
if not at variance with the written con-
stitutional guarantees, is certainly opposed
to national public policy.”
The economic side is stressed by the Rebel,
the official organ of the Workers’ Defense
League, in Pittsburgh, Pa.:
“One of our good friends, Ollie -----------,
is very much wrought up because Negroes
took the elevator jobs at Kauffmaun’s. The
Negro was brought to this country against
his will, handcuffed and leg ironed. They
were freed from chattel slavery not from
a humanitarian standpoint, as probably
Ollie imagines, but because the Northern
capitalist made the startling discovery that
wage slavery brought bigger returns to the
capitalist than chattel slavery. The Negro
is a workingman, has red blood in his veins
and will scab on his white brother just as long
as he is forced to do it to get bread; and
Ollie will also scab when he is forced to by
the same reasons. If Ollie would shake off his
religious prejudice, class prejudice and race
prejudice and treat the Negro on the
industrial field like a brother, the Negro
would go as far as the white man and stick
with him during strikes. This has been
proven down South by the timber workers’
union. But the capitalist does not want
Ollie to lose his race prejudice. As long
as it exists the capitalist can play one race
against the other. Ollie cannot see this yet,
but he will be forced to see it some day.”
RELIGION AND
THE PROBLEM.
The church is getting little
comfort in its futile struggle
with the race problem. The
Kansas City Journal says:
“It is impossible for the layman who has
no brief from any religious organization to
sympathize very keenly with the tangle into
which the recent Protestant Episcopal con-
vention got itself when it refused to create
a separate - bishopric for the Negroes, or
with the more recent controversy in the
Congregational national council involving
the same semi-social recognition of ‘the
colored man and brother.’ The extension of
the ‘hand of fellowship’ to the Negro is for
the committee on resolutions, not for the
individual white members or a religious body.
Whenever the matter is pursued to its logical
extreme, an inevitable and irrepressible con-
flict is precipitated.
“The council now meeting in this city ‘pro-
tested’ against the segregation of white and
Negro Federal employees. The beneficiaries
of this protest, probably made in the interest
of the Negro, were far away, in the national
capital. But when the relentless logic of
the proposition obtruded itself upon the
council in the recognition of the Negro on
the spot, the expected and the inescapable
happened. There was trouble. Resolutions
don’t help or hurt anybody. But tangible
extension of the principle of resolutions is
a different matter.”
130
THE CRISIS
The San Antonio Light discusses the topic
of Negro bishops in the Episcopal Chnreh:
“The arguments for and against tho
resolution naturally grouped themselves into
two classes- On the one hand were
Southern clergymen who contended that
under certain conditions the Negroes should
have separate dioeeses, with bishops of their
own raee. This, they maintained, would be
in line with the policy of race segregation
that has been found wise in sections where
there are large numbers of Negroes, and
whieh is exemplified by separate schools, in
which the colored people have their own
teachers. Such a division .would be pleasing
to the Negro communicants of the church
and satisfactory to the whites.
“On the other hand, it was maintained
by other Southern clergymen that the Negro
is no: ye: sufficiently developed to be given
jurisdiction over his own people in such a
matter, and that to adopt the resolution
would be a shirking on the part of the whites
of their responsibility for the welfare of the
colored race. The question also arose as to
the position of a white clergyman who might
find himself in the presence of a Negro
bishop, who would thus become to an extent
his superior in the church.
“ATter a long discussion, in which the
subject was threshed out in all its bearings
without the debaters getting any nearer to
one another’s views, Mr. Cook’s motion put
the whole matter over for three years.”
In New York City $250,000 out of the
Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A. fund will go
for buildings in which to house the colored
branches. These are especially needed, as
Negroes are not allowed in the central
Y. M. C. A. or in any of the white branches,
a discrimination which is sometimes also
made against the race of Jesus Christ! The
colored people themselves raised $41,000.
In contrast to the “religious” press comes
a strong word from the Truth Seeker, an
agnostic newspaper:
“I want to see my fellow Freethinkers
taking hold in deadly earnest of the under-
lying great economic, political, civic and
ethical issues of the present.
“One of these is the race question. There
can be no honest, just, enduring democracy
where racial lines of cleavage are permitted,
where a man or a woman is measured not by
his or her individual services and character,
but by the race to which he or she belongs,
or belong in part. Any alleged democracy
that denies equality of political, industrial
or civil rights because of race is rotten at
the core and if it does not mercilessly cut out
that rottenness by doing justice, the day
will eome when the corruption will break
through the veneer of religion and respecta-
bility and that counterfeit democracy will
plunge into the depths, where it belongs.
The United States fronts this momentous and
ominous problem, as do the Federated States
of South Afriea, as does Russia in the case
of the Jew, as has and docs every other State
that rested or rests on the slipping shale of
caste. Let no Freethinker have part or
covenant with the unclean thing.”
B
CHICAGO Chicago, has been haring some
heart searching concerning her
own Negro problem. A recent investigation
gave rise to the question as to why the
colored population furnished one-eighth of
the boys and one-third of the girls who were
sent to jail during the year. The Inter-
Ocean says:
“In spite of the great progress the race
has made in Chicago, it is asserted, the
colored boy or girl even to-day contends
against great odds. All business colleges
and industrial schools discriminate against
the Negro, it is said, as do the labor unions
and business men’s associations.
“The investigators found, according to the
report, that the greater number of Negro
enterprises are the outgrowth of domestic
and personal service occupations, and that
they are in branches of business which call
for small amounts of capital and very little
previous experience.
“The report goes on to say: ‘There are at
present in Chicago, managed by colored men,
twenty-three manufacturing establishments;
seventy-two barber shops; sixty-three van,
moving and storage places; fifty restaurants;
thirty-four poolrooms; twenty-six real-estate
dealers; twenty-six tailors; twenty-five coal
* and wood dealers; twenty-four hair dressers;
twenty-three groceries; twenty cigar venders;
twelve builders and contractors; eleven under-
takers; nine printing plants and eight hotels,
besides a small representation in forty-one
other lines of business.’
“The report concludes by calling attention
to the fact that for many years Chicago has
had the reputation of giving the colored race
fair treatment, and urges that unless the
people of the city awaken more fully to the
OPINION
131
injustice which to an extent still is being
practised in discrimination, society has yet
to suffer.”
A well-known fact is illustrated by the
Chicago Tribune:
“On the outskirts of the south side 'black
belt7 stands a flat building in which, until
recently, white tenants paid $12 a month
for a six-room apartment and $17 a month
for a seven-room apartment. It is now filled
with colored people who pay $16 a month for
the smaller flats and $20 for the larger.
The building was in such poor repair that
it was almost impossible to get white tenants
any longer. Not a cent was spent to improve
it before the Negroes moved in.”
Small wonder that Judge Kavanagh said
recently to a Chicago audience:
“That is the state of things that makes
pertinent the inquiry: ‘How much has the
Negro been freed?7 and which permits the
answer: 'Not much.7 77
THE CRUX OP
THE PROBLEM.
A number of curious little
happenings show how the
Negro problem ramifies and
expands. The Lincoln (Neb.) Journal says:
“One incident of the Kansas-Nebraska
football game at Lawrence was more interest-
ing than the game and far more significant.
The fifty colored students of Kansas Univer-
sity attended the game in a body wearing
Nebraska colors and cheering fo- ^ Nebraska
player.
“This was the result of the discussion of
the right of a Negro player to a place on the
Nebraska team. Kansas bars Negroes and
wished Nebraska to do the same. To its
credit Nebraska stood out and Ross played
The Negro students at Lawrence were forced
to choose between loyalty to their school and
loyalty to themselves—their own self-respect.
They took the effective way to give expres-
sion to their feelings of outraged justice.77
The Southern Medical Association, which
met recently in Lexington, Ky., have been
compelled to expunge certain proceedings
from their records. They were having a
pleasant time with each other on the usual
Southern subject of the Negro and showing
beyond peradventure that Negro disease was
threatening white stamina. At this point a
local colored physician whom the Lexington
Herald calls “a man of character and
ability” arose and spoke. Dr. Robinson ex-
plains his position in the following letter in
the Herald:
“The writer, a Negro physician of twenty-
five years7 experience, being present and
hearing the discussion, asked the privilege
of the association to present the matter from
a Negro’s standpoint, which privilege was
granted by vote of the association.
“The writer had no desire to intrude, nor
interfere with the harmony of the meeting,
yet it would seem the part of a coward to
sit in silence before such a caustic arraign-
ment; hence he felt it a matter of duty to
say in open court why such a sentence should
not be passed upon him. He tried to show
that disease is a matter of condition and not
one of race or color; that in disease there
is no aristocracy and that disease germs reign
supreme where the best soil for their propa-
gation obtains; that to be physically unclean
is to be diseased; that nature’s laws, which
are fixed and unchangeable, deal with the
Negro the same as they deal with the white
man under similar conditions. • • •
“The writer regrets that in a discussion
of the matter that even some physicians in a
meeting of a medical society saw fit to inject
the question of social equality into a subject
of so much importance as sanitation and the
welfare of the public health. Social equality
had nothing to do with it.
“After a discussion of the subject by the
writer and others, the meeting went into a
discussion of whether or not the privilege
of the floor, previously granted the writer,
should appear as a matter of record.
“To preserve the honor and integrity of
the white race, and after an animated discus-
sion, it was voted that records should not
show that a Negro had had the privilege of
the floor to discuss the subject of ‘The
Negro as a Public Health Problem.7 77
Atlantic City has been somewhat excited
because its mayor was arrested by a Negro
constable on the charge of bribery; while
the new town of Lomax, HI., announces that
it is going to prevent the sale of liquor for-
ever, “by ‘conditions subsequent7 in our
deeds that will cause the title of the property
to revert to the Town Company. • • • In the
same way we will keep out the Negro and
Asiatics as property owners or renters.”
X ' ^be Song of tbe Smoke
I am the smoke king,
I am black.
I am swinging in the sky,
I am ringing worlds on high;
I am the thought of the throbbing mills,
I am the soul of the Soul toil kills,
I am the ripple of trading rills.
Up I’m curling from the sod,
I am whirling home to God.
I am the smoke king,
I am black.

<=:>
I am the.smoke king,
I am black.
I am wreathing broken hearts,
I am sheathing devils’ darts;
Dark inspiration of iron times,
Wedding the toil of toiling climes,
Shedding the blood of bloodless crimes,
Down I lower in the blue,
Up I tower toward the true.
I am the smoke king,
I am black.
I am the smoke king,
I am black.
I am darkening with song,
I am hearkening to wrong;
I will be black as blackness can,
The blacker the mantle the mightier the man,
My purpl’ing midnights no day dawn may ban.
I am carving God in night,
I am painting Hell in white.
I am the smoke king,
I am black.
I am the smoke king,
I am black.
I am cursing ruddy morn,
I am hearsing hearts unborn;
Souls unto me are as -mists in the night,
I whiten my black men, I blacken my white,
What’s the hue of a hide to a man in his might!
Hail, then, gritty, grimy hands,
Sweet Christ, pity toiling lands!
Hail to the smoke king,
Hail to the black!
(Original version first published in the Horizon)

RESOLVED, That this year I unit
join the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People and
fight for freedom.
JOIN OB DIE!
H w Crisis exists for one
great purpose.
The Crisis seeks to
entertain its readers, and
entertainment is a legiti-
mate object for a
popular magazine. Our pictures, our
stories and our ornamentation are for
entertainment.
But the object of The Crisis is not
simply to entertain.
The Crisis seeks to inform. It is in
the large sense a newspaper. It deals
not so much with immediate news as
with forgotten, neglected and concealed
news. This is its great and notable
function, and gives The Crisis a
peculiar place among American
periodicals.
But The Crisis is not merely an
entertaining newspaper.
The Crisis entertains and informs its
readers for the one object and the sole
object of arousing their fighting blood.
The Crisis means fight and fight for
Right.
More than that, The Crisis stands for
a definite method of fighting. The
Crisis does not simply protest or simply
tell the unpalatable truth or simply cry
fight wildly and crazily.
The Crisis cries fight and adds:
Here are weapons, and here is the
battle line:
Join or die!
What are the weapons? Organized
publicity, advertisement, public meet-
ings, petitions, arrest, law suits, protest,
investigation, research, resistance—
every way in which the civilized world
has fought and must fight and will fight
wrong.
Where is the battle line ?
The battle line is the National
Association for the Advancement of
Colored People
There are individual sharpshooters
fighting their own effective guerrilla
warfare. We greet them and give them
all credit.
There are a few organizations here
and there with some activity. We would
not detract a moment from the value of
their work.
But the flat fact remains:
There is in the United States but one
organization with permanent head-
quarters, paid officials, active nation-
wide membership, live local branches, a
national organ, law officers and travel-
ing organizers, all organized and pre-
pared to make a front forward fight on
racial prejudice in this land.
Here is the organization.
Here is the work to do.
Here are twenty local branches and
over 2,100 members already banded for
the warfare.
What are you doing ?
Join or die!
Join the National Association for
the Advancement of Coix)red People
or be strangled to a slow and awful
death by growing prejudice.
There is no excuse.
The cost? It costs but a dollar.
134
THE CRISIS
The need? We need 200,000 members
instead of a paltry 2,000.
The use? Merciful God! does a
drowning man ask the USE of strug-
gles ? No, he struggles, he fights.
He wins the shore or dies fighting.
Black men of America, are you men?
Dare you fight?
Join us and fight, then.
Join or die!
m
“FREE, WHITE AND TWENTY-ONE.”
E will suppose, dear
reader, that you are
“Free, white and
twenty-one; ’’ that you
are reasonably patriotic
and would rather the
world grew bettor than worse.
What should be your first duty? Will
you pardon us for suggesting member-
ship in the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People as your
first and greatest duty?
Does the advice sound in your ears a
bit grotesque and certainly myopic?
Pause, then, and consider:
Freedom is a state of mind: a
spiritual unchoking of the wells of
human power and superhuman love. Is
there anything in America that is so
strangling brotherhood and narrowing
humanity and encouraging hatred, lust
and murder as race prejudice? Is there
any conceivable crime that it does not
daily excuse? Any conceivable in-
humanity that it may not deify? If
you want freedom, then join this asso-
ciation and fight race hatred.
You are “white.” You want to re-
main “white.” You want your children
to be “white.” Very well. Your wish
on this point may seem to some of us of
slightly less than infinite importance
and yet this is your wish, and the wish
of any human being must be respected.
But do you realize that the one certain
way to insure a future mulatto world
is to despise black folk? Do you realize
that if you make this world a hell for
Africans and Chinese and Malays that
the result will be the rapid disappear-
ance of race differentiation and that,
too, largely and predominantly by
amalgamation?
If then you want to preserve the
special characteristics of white peoples,
make it possible for darker peoples to
preserve their racial characteristics with-
out loss of freedom and self-respect.
You are twenty-one—i. e., you can
vote. Or at least you think you can.
Or if you are really wise you know what
a farce voting is in this land. Why?
Because a Southern voter has from
twice to seven times the power of a
Northern voter and South Carolina far
outweighs Illinois in political signifi-
cance. Because political democracy can-
not be linked with industrial despotism,
else the result is the rule of the rich.
Now industrial despotism is founded on
slavery and peonage, rack rent and low
wages. Negroes were slaves, they are
peons, they are rack rented and receive
less than can support them in decency.
Against them white workingmen must
compete and the votes stolen from
Negroes are used by white capitalists to
keep the laborer in bondage. Is your
vote safe then as long as disfranchise-
ment and peonage are in the land?
Wherefore, as one who is “Free,
white and twenty-one,” come and join
us and help accomplish freedom, safe-
guard legitimate pride of being and
make democracy real.
m
A WRETCHED DECISION.
E doubt if the board of
bishops of the African
Methodist Church can
afford to let the decision
of the publishing board
stand. The facts are that
the last general conference elected a
disreputable minister as business man-
ager of the book concern and an
educated gentleman as editor. The
editor endured this combination for a
long time until at last, being compelled
to explain certain curious happenings, he
EDITORIAL
135
told the truth and said that the
manager was drunk. The publishing
board met; it is said that they dined
with the drunkard, but afterward were
reluctantly compelled to dismiss him by
evidence that was simply overwhelming;
and then they promptly dismissed the
editor for saying that the manager was
drunk! This, we submit, is going a bit
too far and much too fast. Everybody
knows that the Negro chureh has a large
number of disreputable scoundrels in its
ministry. Against these venal immoral
men—the indirect heritage of the slave
regime—the forces of honesty and
uplift in the chureh are fighting and
making gradual headway. But they
have not won. The last African Metho-
dist general conference was a disappoint-
ing body and its work was a distinct
retrogression. Out of the cloud of
bribery and rascality that overhung it
came a few stars of hope in the elevation
of Hurst to the bishopric and Wright to
the editorship of the Christian Recorder.
To offset this, came Lowe and his ilk in
even higher places.
Does the publication board dare openly
and impudently to support the devil
against decency?
Listen, gentlemen, the colored people
are as patient and long suffering with
their own rascals as with the rascality of
their white oppressors. But there are
limits, and if the church cannot cleanse
itself they know how to clean it.
IS
THE YEAS 1913 IN ACCOUNT WITH
BLACK FOLK.
Dr.
OODROW WILSON.
Dismissal of colored
officials.
Segregation in the
civil service.
New attempts at segre-
gation in Baltimore and elsewhere.
Mississippi Pullman case.
The Florida school law.
The unspeakable Patterson.
The civil-rights law repeal.
Sixty Negroes murdered by lynch law
and many more by mobs and assassins.
Death of Harriet Tubman, William J.
White, John R. Franeis, Robert Ogden,
Earl Finch, Bishop Derrick and Jennie
Dean.
Cr.
Second defeat of segregation in
Baltimore.
The Southern Sociological Congress.
The National Emancipation Exposi-
tion in New York City.
The New Jersey Emancipation
Exposition.
The New York Negro regiment hill.
Defeat of discriminatory legislation
in eight States.
Levy civil-rights law in New York.
Colored Y. M. C. A. buildings in
five cities.
Heroism at Dayton, O.
The Standard Life Insurance
Company.
New libraries and parks in the South.
Fisk University endowment.
Winning of Burton and Howe cases.
Lyric Theatre case in New York.
Beginning of supervision of colored
rural schools.
Encouragement of high schools by the
Slater board.
. Illinois semi-centennial bill.
Odd Fellows and Masons balls in
Jacksonville. Atlanta and New Haven.
Association of Negro Industrial and
Secondary Schools.
Perry's black sailors remembered.
Several public officials elected and
appointed.
Growth of the National Association
for the Advancement of Colored People.
Balance Due.
Courage and fight.
• S!
RESOLVED, That it is worth five
dollars a year to any man to fitid out
by such energetic, intelligent, concerted
action as the National Association for
the Advancement of Colored People em-
ploys whether the Negro race in America
is to be slave or free.

A MAN THEY DIDN'T KNOW
A STORY
By JAMES D. CORROTHERS
E*
«
A

^Gradudcd from December CRISIS)
4$ (PART II)
4f>
[Synopsis of part L: Nefferman, President
of the United States, is suddenly faced by
civil war in Mexico, revolt in Hawaii, unrest
among American Negroes and imminent war
with Japan. He calls on colored leaders for
advice- Grant Noble advises the President to'
secure the help and co-operation of Jed
Blackburn, the discredited Negro prize-
fighter.}
“The plan will be considered,” announced
the President. “I shall need your help,
gentlemen, for whatever line of aetion we
decide upon; and I thank you sineerely for
eoming. My secretary will see each one of
yon- You will not objeet, I trust, if we
secure the eo-operation of Dr. Jefferson.”
In the envelope containing his expense
allowance Grant Noble found a request to
call upon the President the following
morning.
In the interim of a night Grant Noble
had made a hurried trip into Pennsylvania.
When he arrived at the White House in the
morning he led by the hand a wondering
little boy whom he left in the outer room,
when finally he was admitted to see the
President.
“Ah! so!" exclaimed President Neffennan,
glaneing up. “Answer two questions:
Your plans? And the reason for this state
of affairs?”
“The reason, Mr. President,” Grant Noble
replied, “is the failure of white Americans
to keep the golden rule in their dealings
with colored people; the inability to believe
that we are no less human than they. Three
hundred years ago Shakespeare made Shy-
lock ask: Tf you prick us, do we not
bleed? If you poison us, do we not die?
If you wrong us, shall we not revenge?’
But these memorable heart cries of another
race merely amuse your own. They should
make you shiver! ‘Vengeance is mine, saith
the Lord, and I will repay!’ You have been
buying, buying, buying, with bullet and
ropfe and roaring, red flame! These, and
every agonized victim’s cry, are legal tender
with God! Strangely, the despised black
man has at last turned from, or upon, his
tormentors, resolved to die.”
“But they must be won baek!” inter-
rupted the President. “What is your
remedy?”
“Simply inspiring JUSTICE."
“Is this disaffection really as general
among your people, Mr. Noble, as it would
appear?”
“I presume you want the truth? I have
myself been approached by ------------ Well,
secret agents of another government. I
was offered tempting things—a professor-
ship in their great university and a man's
ehanee among them. I was at the point of
wavering. Your letter, and that alone,
caused me to reflect that yet hope might
dawn for my raee—in America/' he said
with emotion. “It is my duty to tell you,
Mr. President,” he added, “that this entire
country has been mapped by pretended
‘students.’ Every important road, stream,
forest and hill is known, and the location
of the remotest hamlet. The subjugation
of the whole country is planned. The yel-
low race has shaken hands upon the
prospect. Only God’s providenee can save
ns, with all we may do.”
“What would your plan require?”
“A colonelship for Jed Blaekburn.”
“And for yourself, what?”
“A common soldier’s fare.”
President Neffennan was strangely
moved. “Permit me to shake your hand!”
he exclaimed. “I did not know there were
such men in your race. I and my people
have sinned!”
The glaring sign on a Chicago street
announced the name “Jed Blackburn."
But the place was closed, and the ebon
giant, standing before the door, had a
A MAN THEY DIDN’T KNOW
137
downeast look. He extended his hand to
Grant Noble with a “Glad to meet you,
parson/7 Noble explained his mission.
"What !" roared the scowling giant.
"Fight ter this country? Well. I’m d—d
it I do! Excuse me. parson. Bat ain't
there some more interestin' subject ?—
prayer meetin*. missions, measles, cholera
morbus, an' th’ like. Anything pleasant
'll do. Fightin7 fer white folks is what
ruined me! They say I’m a bad man.
Well, I7m just whut white men developed
me into. See? Did 1 want to be a prize-
fighter? No! I wanted to be a wheel-
wright, like my father. I was a brawny
lad. White men saw me. *Be a fighter/
sez they. I fought. ‘Now, be a sport/
they sez. I sported. ‘Git tough,7 sez they.
‘Th7 tougher you be th' better youTl fight ;
an7 maybe youTl git to be ehampeen/ Say!
I moved right over on to Tough Street.
Th7 further you went th7 tougher it got.
An7 I lived in th7 last house!
“Well, whut does my ehampeenship
'mount to? After I lieked the ehampeen,
th7 white folks got it in fer me. I7m
disgraced to-day, an7 almost broke. Wish
I7d never seen a glove! I eould have been
useful an7 happy down South in th7 little,
ole shop. But I ain’t got no trade, ner
no fFen's. parson. Thar’s ail !"
“My friend,77 agreed Grant Noble,
“you've been a big fool. But there's a way
of atonement for you. You are a brave
man. Will you take it?77
Thereupon he narrated his plan.
“Parson/7 declared the pugilist with
emotion, “IT1 go you! The7 ain't no
yaller in me! I never saw this thing
before. If I've hurt my race I'll atone.
An7 thank God fer th7 chance!77 And his
eyes filled with tears.
“All my life I've tried, in my way, to
be somebody,77 he continued. “I meant to
win glory fer my race. I starved, stalled,
fought under wraps, played silly—till my
chance eome, when they sent me ag'inst
the ehampeen. Before that fight I prayed
to God. Between every round I prayed.
The ehampeen wuz almost killin' me. My
punishment wuz awful. His strength wuz
as the strength of twenty men; his blows
were murder. Ag'inst his ponderous bulk
an7 strength I pitted my skill an7 tough-
ness, and fought toe to toe. Three of my
ribs were crushed, my teeth loosened an7
my lips Weedin'; an7 I bled inwardly, but
I joked an7 smiled an7 fought on. I knew
my good, ole mother wuz prayin'. I knew
ail my race wuz hopin', an7 I went in to
win or die. I'm a tough guy, parson, but I
went to th7 hospital after that right. The
ehampeen nearly finished me. ’stead o’ me
girtin' him. As I lay in that hospital,
sufferin' th7 tortures uv th' damned, I
thanked my lucky stars, an’ thanked th’
dear, good God. It's tough, ain't it. parson,
when a feller's disgraced his race? Well.
Jed die Blackburn in a colonel's uniform
’ll look swelL Aye?77
The country responded gallantly to the
President's call for volunteers—Germans.
Jews, Irish, Italians, Negroes, men of
nearly every race, a million Americans
sprang bravely to arms, proudly augment-
ing the regular troops. Gen. Frederick R.
Gant, son of the illustrious “Hero of
Athernox/7 was plaeed in supreme
command.
As the ranking officer of his race, Jed
Blackburn was allowed to attend the con-
ference of officers, and to listen while plans
were discussed for “the defeat of the enemy
on his own grounds.77 Little attention was
paid to Blackburn. In fact, he was merely
tolerated. Someone, in pure consideration,
however, suggested that he be allowed a
word.
Blaekburn spoke briefly, but as decisively
as a veteran.
“Always let your man come to you," he
declared, in heavy bass; “let 'im come on.
an7 nail 'im without a return. How you
goin7 to fight anybody you can't find? Let
th7 geesers come over here. They’re cornin’
fast enough! Save your energy, an7 cut
loose when you’re sure. An7, depend upon
it, they'll feint, an7 try to smash you where
you don’t expect it. Jes’ like boxin'!’*’
Strange to tell, this was the very plan
the enemy pursued. The Philippines had
yielded; Hawaii was gone. Suddenly a
small Japanese squadron, appearing off
San Francisco, began a heavy bombard-
ment. Repelled, they sullenly drew off. in
apparent discomfiture, steaming swiftly
westward, out of sight. Almost immedi-
ately a withering bombardment was begun
at San Diego, crumpling the town. The
invaders landed, pushed rapidly north, and
formed a juncture with their land forces,
marching north from lower California.
138
the crisis
Within three days the vanishing fleet which
had withdrawn from the Golden Gale was-
hurled back, Hke a thunderbolt, upon Santa
Monica, the port of Los Angeles, wreaking:
untold vengeance there.
“Do yon go, gen’al, an* say ‘howdy* to
’em down there?" exclaimed Blackburn,
joyfnlly. “Me ’an my men T1 troll these
others off to a nice little place I know—a
deep valley in th’ Santa Rosa Mountains.
I found it when I used to be trainin'. It's
a regular death trap. When we fellers git
’em there well settle with some of ’em;
an* you’se eome back an’ do th’ rest,"
Then he stepped out before his “army"—
200.000	blacks. “Who’s goin’ along with
me?” he asked quietly. “It may mean
death, men. Will you go? Will you go.
Mc-Vey? Will you, Langford? You,
Jeanuev.e To which thev assented—
“Yes"
•“An5 who else?’’ Jed Blackburn cried.
With a tremendous roar, 200,000 Negro
throats gave back a thunderous “I—I—II”
“Good boys!” avowed Blaekburn, “but
you’ve too many. I’ll take every twentieth
man.”
Thus, of those named, were counted out
all but MeVey. Grant Noble was eoanted
out, and bidden to “eome on with th’
n>i n fnrppmpn ta.”
“Men,” announced Jed Blackburn to the
10.000	who should go, “we shell move at
onee agTnst th* enemy. There’s not mneh
hope uv us eomin’ back. But, if we die
in this fight, we’ll be dyin’ fer our race.
Maybe we’ll make it better fer them that’s
leT to telL”
Then, like desperate wasps, they stung
the hurrying yellow flank, harassing, re-
treating, harrying; interfering with their
march; luring * them always toward the
“death trap”—on and on. At last the great
moment was near. “Colonel” Blackburn sent
this message to General Gant:
“Send reinforcements now. We’ll end the
war here.”
Northeast in the Santa Rosa range is a
narrow defile, flanked and overbrowed with
beetling cliffs. It is like a rocky throat.
Straight north it leads into a valley, a pre-
cipitous, dreary enclosure, several miles in
circumference- This is the stomach. Thither
Jed Blackburn retreated, elose pressed by
the invaders, and made his only stand. This
was “the death trap.” Prom this valley
there was no retreat, save by the pass by
which they came.
Now earns the victorious whites, like the
swift eagles of Rome, swooping to the prey.
The black reinforcement earns with them,
straining upon the leash, madly eager _ for
the fray. Grant Noble, among them, wore
the uniform of a common soldier. Lyes
ablaze, breath quiek, he stood waiting for
the command. Over in the “death trap”
the sound of grim slaughter was heard.
The loyal blacks were dying now. Under
that lurid sky the fierce arm of Nippon
was bared; the sword of Nippon drank
blood, and leaden missiles sang of death.
The smoking valley reeled beneath the
awful cannonade. It was horrible for the
black men within!—100.000 yellow men
against 10.000 blacks. •
Now I now. the command was given! In
an impetuous charge 10.000 black, battle-
glaring demons dashed through the blazing
pass and rushed upon the foe. A hundred
thousand Germans followed, like the re-
sistless legions of Barbarossa; 90,000 more
Negro troops followed these, and then still
other and other American soldiers eame
Jews, Frenehmen, English-Americans, Ital-
ians, Irish, Swedes; and from the heights
American cannon boomed, while American
aviators, hovering aloft, skilfully dropped
explosives upon the army of Nippon. The
effect was horrible. Brave devils! whole
Japanese regiments crumpled and curled
up in the withering fire. Raked every way
with belehing cannon and rattling musketry,
bayonetted and slashed by the ever-charging
blaek troops, no human power could long
endure the fearful plight of the yellow
warriors. The fight was soon over. A dash
by the Irish troopers gained the day. The
war was ended.
The correspondents who accompanied the
troops heralded the magnificent victory, and
agreed that Gen. Frederick R. Gant vied
_ with President Neffennan as the “man of
the hour.” But General Gant himself
stated that he must agree with Presi-
dent Nefferman who had generously avowed
that mneh credit was due to a colored man
of the name of Grant Noble. But Noble,
when sought out upon the battlefield,
pointed to a gigantic black man lying among
the slain.
“There, gentlemen,” he declared, “is a
man they didn’t know.”
NATJQWAl ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT
OF COLORED PEOPLE
OUE NEW IiEGAX. BUREAU.
A S announced in the last issue of The
^ Crisis, the legal work of the associa-
tion has been put upon a new basis. Air.
Brins made has been retained to assist the
legal committee. His ornee is at 26 Yesey
Street; in the association's national omees.
The legal work is to be confined entirely to
cases of race discrimination. We do not intend
to do legal work for colored people just be1
cause they are colored- We do want to help
in every ease where a colored person, because
of eolor, is denied • a right to which he is
entitled- We realize that it is often hard to
decide whether or not a particular case in-
volve raee discrimination and shall be glad
to consider any case where there is this
doubt; but we cannot too strongly emphasize
this point: We cannot take cases where the
wrong is not the result of raee discrimination.
To determine, therefore, whether or not to
apply to us for help, consider only the facts
of your case- Was it because of your eolor
that you were wronged? Do not bring a
case to us because you eannot afford to pay
a lawyer. There are legal aid societies. We
refer to them all persons unable to pay a
lawyer’s bill who report eases that do not
come within the scope of our work- On the
other hand, do not neglect to report a case
of real race discrimination, because you feel
able to pay all your legal expenses. If you
can afford to, employ your own attorney
and we will co-operate with him, if he so
desires. We furnish, not financial, but legal
help, and we are ready to supply it to rich
or poor in any case which comes within the
scope of our work.
The enumeration of a few examples of
race discrimination will show the scope of
our work. Familiar instances are lynching,
denial of civil rights and segregation- The
first is the most important. Every lynching
should be promptly reported. The second
is important because so common. Colored
people are constantly being compelled to
stand in street ears in which white people
are given seats; they are furnished accom-
modations on railway trains which are
greatly inferior to those furnished to white
people and they are denied admittance to
theatres, hotels, restaurants, etc., to which
white people are admitted. They are often
compelled to submit questions involving
their lives, their liberty or their property to
juries from which all colored persons have
been excluded because of their color.
The third example, segregation, is con-
stantly becoming more important. The
highest court of the land has apparently
decided that under distinct limitations segre-
gation on railway trains is legitimate. But
now the principle is being extended on every
side. Colored government employees are
being segregated, cities are adopting ordi-
nances planned to confine colored people to
certain parts of the city, and there is a move-
ment on foot to carry out the same scheme
in country districts.
We eannot begin to enumerate all the
cases that can arise, but the above will
suggest a few ways in which race discrimina-
tion manifests itself.
We offer a few suggestions about report-
ing cases:
When promptness is necessary, be prompt.
When a lynching occurs, report it imme-
diately with all you	learn about the
facts. Evidence can be obtained only by
prompt action, and without evidence we are
140
THE
helpless. When there has been introduced
into the legislature of your State or the
council of your city a bill which discrimi-
nates against colored people, if we do not
learn of it till it has been passed, obviously
we can do nothing.
On the other hand, if the act of discrimina-
tion is in pursuance of a regular policy—
u e.t if you are excluded from a theatre or
restaurant or denied a seat) on a street car—
do not report that particular violation, but
let us know when and how colored people
are being discriminated against and we will
advise you how to prepare cases which will
best test the validity of these acts.
Do not hesitate to report a case because
you do not wish your name to appear in
the matter. We do not disclose the name of
our informant if he requests us not to.
Finally, it must be borne in mind that
every case of injustice cannot be remedied
in the law courts. Therefore, it will not be
surprising if we are unable to render any
assistance whatever in many cases which will
be referred to us. Do not, however, let this
fact deter you from applying to us for
assistance whenever you consider that you
have been denied your rights on account of
your color.
m
ANNUAL MEETING.
rT1 HE annual meeting of the National
Association will be held in the audi-
torium of the Charities Building, 105 East
22d Street, New York, on Monday, January
5. There will be two sessions. The after-
noon session, which will be devoted to
reports of officers and committees and to
other business of the association, will be
open to members only. The evening session,
beginning at 8 o’clock, will be a public ses-
sion and members are asked to bring their
friends. The subject of the meeting will
probably be segregation and there will be
addresses by prominent speakers. Dinner
will be served to the members and guests at
half-past six at the Rand School, 140 East
19th Street, at 50 cents a plate.
A formal notice of this meeting will be
sent to all members of the association. The
annual meeting should not be confused with
the annual conference, which will be held
in Baltimore the last week in April or the
first week in May.
CRISIS
MEETINGS.
T"\R. “SPINGARN addressed an enthu-
siastic meeting of 600 colored citizens
at the Beneficent Congregational Church,
Providence, R. I., on Wednesday, November
4.	The meeting was held under the auspices
of a temporary committee working to estab-
lish a branch of the National Association.
Dr. J. J. Robinson was chairman of this
committee and Miss Roberta J. Dunbar
secretary. Dr. Robinson presided at the
meeting. Other speakers were the Rev.
Asbury Krom, pastor of the church, and
Mr. John C. Minkins.
On November 17 Mr. Villard made an
address to the students of Cornell University
on the work of the association. There was
a large attendance and as a result it s<^ms
probable that a college chapter will be
formed at Cornell.
m
BRANCHES.
Baltimore.
.np HE Baltimore branch has succeeded,
through its attorneys, Mr. McGuinn
and Mr. Hawkins, in acquitting George
Howe, the man who shot into a mob which
was bombarding his house. When these
attorneys took up his case he had already
been convicted. After a desperate fight he
was acquitted on all five charges—assault
with intent to murder, three charges of com-
mon assault and a fifth charge for carrying
concealed weapons.
At the annual meeting of the branch the
following officers were elected: President,
Dr. F. M. Cardoza; recording secretary, Miss
Lucy D. Slowe; assistant recording secre-
tary, Miss Ethel Lewis; corresponding
secretary, Miss Margaret Flagg; treasurer,
Mr E. B. Taylor; executive committee, Mr.
George B. Murphy, chairman; Mr. W. T.
McGuinn, Mr. D. 0. W. Holmes, Rev. W. W.
Williams, Rev. G. R. Waller, Dr. A. O. Reid.
Boston.
On Sunday afternoon, December 1,
Boston held another magnificent protest
meeting in Faneuil Hall. An hour before
the time for the meeting hundreds of the
members of the various lodges of Odd
Fellows, headed by the Rev. Samuel A.
Brown, of the Congregational Church,
marched from the West End. From the
South End marched members of the
THE N. A- A. C. P.
141
various churches, literary clubs, Bible
classes and civic org&nizatipns, headed by
the Rev. B. W. Swain, of Zion Church. For
years Boston has not seen such an impressive
sight—representatives of all races and creeds
going to Faneuil Hall, the people’s cradle
of liberty, to protest against the inhuman
and undemocratic policy of segregation and
the recognition of caste by the United^ States
Government.
At 3 o’clock the hall and the adjacent
square were packed. In the audience were
many distinguished men and women. On
the platform were the clergymen of the
colored churches of Greater Boston. When
Mr. Storey was presented the audience rose
to its feet with a great burst of applause.
Mr. Storey said that while the segregation
of colored citizens in public-service posi-
tions might be the act of the President’s
subordinates alone, his. failure to heed the
protest sent to Washington gives the sanc-
tion of the government to a prejudice which
blocks the Negro on every hand. He
continued:
“Our colored citizens are not inferior, and
they are progressing so fast that they will
soon present themselves as the white man’s
equal. Persecution, world wide and bitter,
could not keep the Jew down; England’s
contempt for the Irish has not kept the Irish
down. We are dealing with a caste prejudice.
Every race should unite with us to destroy
it. The national government sanctions and
approves the race prejudice which is the
greatest handicap to Negro progress to-day.
We fully appreciate the grave difficulties
which beset the path of President Wilson,
but we cannot forget that he promised, before
his election, fair dealings for the colored
people. He has the power to arrest segre-
gation. We ask him now for the promised
assistance.”
Rabbi Eichler, the next speaker, declared
that no prejudice should be recognized
officially in this country, saying:
“Once it is, the great prophecy of Abra-
ham Lincoln will come true: 1A house
divided against itself cannot stand.’ I am
with you in this fight. We have suffered
from segregation and while the laws have
been modified and changed, segregation of
my people still exists in a great many
places, not legally, but actually. The segre-
gation that exists in Washington to-day is
wrong, unjust.”
Cheering and loud applause greeted Mr.
Villard, the last speaker. Many in the
audience had heard his distinguished ancestor
in this very hall pleading for justice to the
Negro.
Resolutions calling upon the President,
Postmaster-General and Secretary of the
Treasury, Mr. McAdoo, to stop segregation
were read by Major Horace Bumstead, who
led the colored troops at the battle of.
Petersburg. A telegram from Mayor Fitz-
gerald was read, stating that he had already
taken up the matter with the authorities in
Washington.
The previous evening both Mr. Storey and
Mr. Villard made addresses at a banquet of
the Wendell Phillips Association, held in
Chipman Hall in celebration of “Garrison
Night.”
Detroit.
The National Association is in receipt of
newspaper clippings containing resolutions
of the Detroit branch censuring the aetion
of Wendell Miner, a colored caterer, who
refused to serve the Men’s Club of St.
Matthew’s Episcopal Church at a banquet
held at the Taylor-Wolfenden Cafe. Mr.
Miner has been excluded from two waiters’
associations because of his action and it is
rumored that he has been so ostracized that
he has left the city.
Howard University.
The Howard University chapter of the
National Association for the Advancement of
Colored People began its year’s work with
a monster mass meeting. Never in the history
of the university has there been such an
outpouring of students for such a cause.
The attendance and the enthusiasm which
characterized the meeting indicate that
Howard, as the first chartered college branch
of the association, is destined to carry its
propaganda into many colleges in this
country. President Allen presided and made
an inspiring address.
Tacoma.
Tacoma is the first branch to give an
anniversary banquet to celebrate its advent
into the association. At this first birthday
affair the president, Rev. J. A. Nelson, pre-
sided as toastmaster. The speakers were
the Rev. Mr. Collins, Mr. Joseph Corbin,
Mr. H. J. Asberry, Mrs. Blanche L. Gaston,
Mrs. J. D. Carter and others. That Tacoma
is alive to the segregation issue is indicated
142
TFTK CRISIS
by the fact that protest meetings have
recently been held in two of the white Con-
gregational churches. Both of these meet-
ings were arranged by the pastors of the
churches, the Rev. A. C. Wheeler and the
Rev. Frank Dyer.
Washington, D. C.
Members of the committee of fifty are
working hard poshing their campaign for
$2,000. Miss Hunter, Mr. Hershaw, Mr.
Thomas, Mr. Cook, the Rev. Mr. MeCary and
other members of the executive committee are
spreading the propaganda of the associa-
tion by holding meetings, making addresses
and by campaigning for members. Lack
of space prevents our quoting in full the
following communication just received as
The Crisis goes to press:
"Miss Margaret Woodrow Wilson,
"The White House,
“Washington, D. C.
“Madame :
"In the Evening Star for Friday, Novem-
ber 28, I note on the front page a news
article announcing that ‘representatives of
fifty-six loeal eivie organizations and others
interested in Washington's development have
received invitations to attend a meeting in
the east room of the White House, when a
report will be made by a special committee
appointed to consider a wider use of the
sehool plant, a plan to correlate the city's
recreational activities and the location of
swimming pools in the District of Columbia.'
To you in your capacity as chairman of the
special committee mentioned, I take the
liberty of submitting a most respectful pro-
test against the exclusion of representatives
of the colored, civic organizations both from
the ‘meeting held November 14 last, at the
home of Mrs. Archibald Hopldns, under the
auspices of the committee on recreation of
the women's department of the National
Civic Federation' and from the meeting
called for Monday, December 1, at the
W hii^ House.
"The drawing of the color line was accen-
tuated at the November 14 meeting by the
looks of surprise in certain faces, I am told
by a good friend, with which the entirely
accidental presence of one colored person
was greeted. A second invitation to this
unique individual will not, of eourse, take
off the eurse!
"About one-third of the total population
of Washington is colored. The loeal colored
community is not undistinguished for its
culture and its sense of responsibility for
community betterment. No other element in
the city's population is more deeply con-
cerned than the colored people in the wider
use of the sehool plant and in the correla-
tion of the city's recreational activities. Im-
portant in population, both absolute and
proportionate; profoundly affected by the
suceess or failure of the projects to whieh
your special committee stands committed;
heartily disposed to render community
serviee, the colored people of Washington
are distressed and humiliated at their exclu-
sion from the councils to which ‘representa-
tives of fifty-six local civic organizations
and others interested in Washington's
development have received invitations.' * * *
“Most respectfully,
“Archibald H. Grimke.”
A NEW BUSINESS VENTURE
---------------7------------—-
gi gi	By H. H. PACE	gigs

E organization of the
Standard Life Insurance
Company, of Atlanta, Ga.,
with a paid-in capital of
$100,000, is a long stride
forward in the financial
development of the Negro
race. From the beginnings of insurance
among our people in the secret society and
the fraternal order to an old-line legal reserve
company, which has met the requirements of
four Southern States and has undergone one
of the most rigid examinations for admission
into a State that any company ever had to
undergo, is indeed an achievement worth
more than passing mention. The business
of life insurance has become one of the
world’s greatest as well as one of its most
beneficent forces. The combined assets of
the old-line life-insurance companies of this
country aggregate the enormous sum of
$6,000,000,000. There are over 30,000,000
A NEW BUSINESS VENTURE
143
policies in force issued by the 300 white com-
panies who transact the business of life in-
surance. All of these enormous assets are held
by white people, and almost all of the insur-
ance which these policies represent is carried
by white people. The pamphlet issued by an
actuarial society, giving the geographical
distribution of life insurance by States, uses
the following words: “As there is little or
no insurance among the Negro raee, he is
left out of all calculation in this book.”
The Standard Life Insurance Company is
intending, through its organization and its
operation, to make of the Negro raee a factor
in the calculation of insurance books and
pamphlets of the future. For fully fifteen
years there have been efforts made by our
people along insurance lines. The siek and
death-benefit eoneeros, operated largely upon
the mutual plan with no capital stock, have
done in their way a considerable amount of
good; in fact, they have paved the way for
sueh an organization as this one of which
I am writing. The Standard Life
Insurance Company would have been an
impossibility fifteen or eighteen years ago.
The first attempt to organize this com-
pany was made over five years ago, when
Homan E. Perry, born on a Texas prairie,
where his vision became great by necessity,
who had eagerly read every word that had
ever fallen beneath his eyes that was written
about life insurance, who at spare times had
sold life insurance for the Manhattan Life,
the Fidelity, Mutual and the Equitable, who
had drifted to New York and had studied
life insurance at first hand in the offices of
some of these companies as an employee,
who had formed the acquaintance of
actuaries of national reputation and dis-
tinction, and who had dreamed of an institu-
tion of insurance owned and operated by
Negroes, came down to Atlanta on the red
hills of Georgia and told a group of business
men gathered at the Y. M. C. A. that he
proposed to start a hundred-thousand-dollar
life-insurance company. Some of those who
were present sat up and gasped. Surely this
young man was crazy, they thought. Some
of them did not hesitate to even say so.
When he outlined to them his plans, when he
told them his dream in a simple, straight-
forward, earnest way, and explained to them
that the least amount with which they could
begin business would be $100,000 paid-in
capital which must be invested in bonds and
deposited with the State treasurer for the
protection of the policyholders of the com-
pany, they could hardly believe their ears.
These men who had been in business and in
the professions in Atlanta for many years,
many of whom had grown wealthy in the
one usual way, through investment in real
estate, who had been accustomed to seeing
big things done in their own little wonderful
eity of Atlanta by white men, were not pre-
pared to see a Negro with an idea as big as
this. They began to ask questions; they did
not understand the meaning of those words
“paid in” and “$100,000.” They really
wondered if he didn’t make a mistake and
meant $10,000 instead, and when they finally
became convinced that this serious, sober,
earnest young man meant every word he
said some of them went home to think the
matter over. Some few of them never came
back, but the talk of that one meeting and
what had been said was destined to live.
Little by little the idea grew and men and
women in every walk of life became
interested in what this stranger was trying
to do. Finally, when the subscription list
opened, there were many who subscribed in
good faith, who made the first payment and
gave their notes for the balance. There
were some others of our folk, and we have
a good number of them among us who are
professional subscribers, who put their names
to everything that comes along and who
never really intended paying. All of them,
however, saw the possibilities of an organiza-
tion backed by a capital of $100,000 and
operated along conservative insurance lines,
but they didn’t believe that that much money
could ever be raised by and among colored
people except at a rally to build a church.
Finally a charter of incorporation was
secured in January, 1909. Then began the
real struggle. Up and down the length and
breadth of the entire Southland, through
every State from Virginia to Texas, Mr.
Perry traveled at his own expense during
the two years that immediately followed,
selling stock, as he used to say, in the
Standard Life Insurance Company. Tireless
and unceasing, he endured all the hardships
of Southern “Jim Crow” travel, obsessed
by his dream and the idea that he could
succeed in raising $100,000 to establish an
old-line legal reserve insurance company
among Negroes. There was a provision in
the subscription blank which we offered, to
every subscriber, that not one penny of the
money paid in should be used for the ex-
144
THE CRISIS
penses of the organization; that if the com-
pany was not launched every dollar received,
with 4 per cent, interest, should be returned
to the subscriber.
The State of Georgia said when the
charter was granted: "Should you fail to
begin business within two years from the
date of issuance of this charter the money
received for subscriptions shall be refunded
to the subscribers and this charter shall be
revoked.” January 2S, 1911, was the last
day on which the Standard Life Insurance
Company could begin business under that
charter. After two years of the hardest
kind of work and the greatest of sacrifices,
in the closing days of 1910, there was little
more than $60,000 in hand, and it needed
$40,000 more before anything could be done.
Ry herculean efforts within the next thirty
days another $10,000 had been raised by
this man whose faith in his idea had never
been shaken. But when January, 1911,
dawned and began to grow old it became
apparent even to him that the $30,000
needed could not be raised from the sub-
scribers themselves, so he began to try and
borrow the necessary amount. From bank
to bank and from trust company to trust
company he went with increasing agony of
despair to be met first with a laugh and a
sneer—surely this Negro must be crazy, try-
ing to borrow $30,000 from a white bank—
and finally as they saw the evident sin-
cerity, the earnestness of intent and purpose,
the absolute integrity and honesty of the
man, he was met with kindly words of
sympathy and pity, until finally one bank
president agreed that he would do what he
could, but he needed time to consult his
lawyer and his board, and the days were
slipping rapidly toward the 2Sth, when
either business must be’begun or the charter
be surrendered. And so a trip was made
to New York, where the whole project
was laid before about twelve of the leading
bankers of that city, Mr. Perkins, of J. P.
Morgan & Company, being among the num-
ber. He gave more encouragement than
the others; all of them listened intently, but
the money was not forthcoming. And so
with unusual swiftness the days sped by
toward the fateful day; toward the shatter-
ing of a strong man’s dream, and toward the
point which would have broken a weak man’s
heart. During all those two years or more
in which Heman E. Perry had been traveling
through the South, selling stock in the
Standard Life Insurance Company, endur-
ing the abominations of "Jim Crow” cars
and stations, and in which he had collected
$70,000 of other people’s money, he had
used not one cent of that money, but had
served without pay, had defrayed bis own
expenses, had hired others to help him when
his own strength failed, had paid ofiice rent
and printing bills, had used every cent in
the world that he possessed and had gone
deep into debt that he might build tbis
institution that would be a financial bulwark
to the race. Then the charter expired and
there began the sorrowful task of returning
to hundreds of subscribers, scattered through-
out ten States, this big sum of more than
$70,000. The third day in February saw
every subscriber with a check in his hands
for the amount which he had paid, with
added interest of 4 per cent., and seemingly
the end of the Standard Life Insurance
Company.
It would have been the end to an ordi-
nary man. It would have crushed a weak man.
Tt would have convinced most people that
raising capital in large amounts was a hope-
less thing among colored people, that a
$100,000 company with its capital all paid
up and a surplus on hand to write insurance
on Negro lives was an impossibility. But
the man who had worked for two years mak-
ing untold sacrifices was made of sterner stuff.
He was made of the stuff that succeeds.
After the sting of the crushing defeat had
lost some of its pain, he set about the task of
doing it all over again. Some who had been
connected with the first company thought he
was crazy, sure enough. Others pitied him,
and there were some who marveled at his
nerve, who admired a game man and the
fellow who could not he defeated. They sub-
scribed and sent back the whole check that
they had just received. Then for nearly
two years more he performed the same kind
of labor, made the same kind of sacrifices,
traveled days and nights, talked to men and
women in his quiet, unassuming, earnest way,
and long before the time had expired he had
sold every one of the 1,000 shares of stock
at $125 to $150 per share, collected over
$50,000 in cash, had taken notes for the
balance of 80,000-odd dollars, and with the
co-operation of twenty of his associates in
the organization had borrowed on the notes
of the stockholders $50,000 more from a
white bank in Atlanta, Ga., and assured the
future of the Standard Life Insurance Com-
A NEW BUSINESS VENTURE
145
p»ny by purchasing and depositing with the
treasurer of the State of Georgia $100,000
in bonds. He had begun the realization of
the dream which he had years ago on a Texas
ranch.
In the sale of this stock, in the perfection
of the organization, there has been no pre-
ferred stock, no guaranteed stock, no ex-
travagant promises, no' bait of big or imme-
diate dividends, and very little noise made.
In organizing the company the stock has
been offered to those who wish to buy purely
on the merits of the proposition itself. No
literature was sent out in the usual pro-
moter’s way, no promises were held out of
fortunes to be made. It was a plain
business proposition, in widen was em-
phasized the first fact that the race needs
such an insurance organization and that if
it was properly eondneted as we propose to
eonduet this one, that it eould and would
sueeeed, and those who bought, bought be-
cause of the faith that was in them Thai the
Standard Life Insurance Company had a
mission to perform. Certainly no institu-
tion had a harder time being bom than this-
organization about whieh I am writing, and
if that fact counts for anything, none
deserves more to live.
But after its birth, after the bonds were
deposited with the State of Georgia and the
license to do business in Georgia was issued,
we had reached only the beginning of the
work. . There were rates to be compiled,
policy forms to be prepared, a system of
accounts to be devised, an agency force to be
procured, suitable clerical help to be found,
and men who eould sell insurance to be lo-
cated and put to work. We began the first
part of this trouble on the rates, policy forms
and tables by employing one of the best-
known actuaries in America, Mr. George
Dyre El bridge, of New York, who undertook
to work out for the eompany its rates, tables,
values and reserves along the lines upon
whieh the old-line white companies were
operated, and before any contract of any
sort was issued it had the careful scrutiny
of the insurance departments of every State
in whieh we applied for admission.
All of the Southern States have previously
licensed mutual assessment concerns operated
by our people- Some of them have taken
sufficient notiee of Negro insurance to re-
quire them along with other companies of
their kind to make deposits ranging from
$5,000 to $15,000 in bonds. But the applica-
tion of a Negro eompany to write insurance
.requiring a deposit of $100,000 to protect
their contracts was something new and un-
heard of to them. Consequently when our
application to do business was made, we
were given more than the	scrutiny
which such an application might have re-
ceived. . To-day we are licensed in Georgia.
Alabama, Tennessee and Kentucky, with an
application pending in Texas and one in
Missouri.
We have actually begun business and have
issued over 1.000 policies, aggregating
$500,000 worth of insurance, since we first
began to issue policies in the month of June.
The white companies have welcomed ns into
this new field. In our home eity of Atlanta
their officers and employees have volunteered
from time to time their services, and in the
beginning, when we were unable to secure
many of the things whieh we needed for
immediate use, they have shown their
neighbor! in res and friendliness by volun-
teering a loan of such of their forms or
books as we needed until ours could be
delivered from the printer.
The insurance journals throughout the
country have freely and frankly commented
upon the movement. The Southern daily
newspapers have given most commendable
and helpful editorial utterances in favor of
the eompany. "The United States Review,
published in Philadelphia, in commenting
upon the organization, said: “The new
eompany will fill a field in the insurance
world practically unoccupied at the present
time, and should meet with complete success.77
The Atlanta Constitution said editorially a
few mornings after we received our license:
“Nothing less than an epoch in the material
history of the Southern Negro is comprised
in the chartering of the Standard Life
Insurance Company, composed of repre-
sentative Negroes throughout the South.
Organized with a capital of $100,000, and
surplus of $16,000, its promotion expenses
total the unusually conservative aggregate
of S per cent. The financial test of the
company’s worth is that it qualified for
license under the new insurance laws of the
State, among the most. drastic in America.
The launching of this company illustrates
what the Negro can do for himself.77
THE BURDEN

THE LYNCHING AT WEWOKA.
T T is true that the white people of this town
and neighborhood hanged and fired
about 100 shots with pistols and all s«rts of
guns into John Cudjo’s body, on the night
of the 4th inst., on a telephone pole in front
of the courthouse. We had no trouble hear-
ing the guns and screams of white women, a
few of whom found they could not stand the
ordeal. The wife of the under sheriff, whom
John Cud jo had killed the previous Satur-
day night, asked that Cudjo be not burned;
so the barrel of oil and roll of cotton
bagging carried over to roll him in were not
used, but returned to their owners.
It seems that Cudjo had had trouble with
a white man in another county of the State
over the boundary of their joining lands,
the white man having refused to obey the
results of the survey they had made. In
this State of very elastic laws and customs
the white man built the dividing fence to
suit his notion, which was over on Cudjo’s
land, whereupon Cudjo, after several conver-
sations with the white man, killed him with a
knife. During the year or more since that
time Cudjo had kept hidden to some
extent. Having relatives in this (Seminole)
county, he had been hunted here. As be was
known to be of the belief that he was in
the right and had not been treated fairly,
and expected to protect himself, they sent the
noted Negro eater and hater, John Dennis,
with two other men, down to bring him in.
While the several stories I have heard about
the affair conflict, it seems that they located
the house late in the afternoon, which was
five miles south from the town, then waited
in the bushes until dark to storm the place.
They rushed up, asked to be admitted, but
Cudjo refused and defended himself with
his pistols to the extent of killing John
Dennis and banishing the others until he
got out. He was hunted by dogs and
hundreds of men till Tuesday, the 4th, mid-
day, when he was overtaken, and in the
chase he shot two men and two horses who
charged him and they and their reinforce-
ments shot him, we are told, dozens of times.
Some reports say he was dead when brought
here, others say not. The Negroes here were
and are disturbed. While the county judge
and several of the lawyers and other
“civilized” people were known to be present,
the local papers say the members of the mob
were unknown.
As it will do no* good to use my name in
dealing with this information, I respectfully
ask that it be cancelled.
m
FROM A COLORED WOMAN IN A
SOUTHERN STATE.
"V/T Y husband and I had planned to go^to
Los Angeles, Cal. I have just read
your request to write The Crisis for advice.
For the last seventeen years my husband
has been employed at --------. First, as
instructor of blacksmithing; second, as
mechanical engineer. This work called for
operating an electric plant which furnished
light and froze the ice for the school, keep-
ing all the machinery in repair and keeping
the water system up. He stayed on duty
sixteen and seventeen hours per day. The
principal said he was a most valuable man.
But his value seemed to decrease as soon as
the principal heard that he had spoken too
independently to the white board before
whom a charge against him was being in-
vestigated. One of my husband’s white
friends told him that the way he talked had
more to do with his discharge than the charge
against him. The head of my husband’s
department and the principal of the school
were referred to by the board as “Negroes
who talked humble.” I was never prouder
in my life of my husband. I am truly glad
that he talked like a man, if he did lose
the $1,000 job. He left his work on the 1st
instant, and we want to go West. He is an
excellent blacksmith, machinist, auto repairer
and electrician. I have taught in public
schools of this State, having graduated from
the State normal course and also holding a
certificate in sewing and have a great deal
of practice. Both of us are healthy and
strong in body and mind. I have chosen
Los Angeles, as I have visited there this
summer.
We will appreciate your advice. We have
several hundred dollars to invest in some
kind of business along my husband’s line of
work.
WHAT TO READ s ®

FERRIS’ VINDICATION.*
r | 1 HE appearance of the two large
volumes of "The African Abroad,” by
William H. Ferris, published by the printers
to Yale University, is a peculiar vindication
of an unusual personality. Among the
thinking classes of colored America Mr.
Ferris has long been the object of much dis-
cussion and even impatient condemnation.
To the “practical” and “business” wing of
our race he has been anathema, the awful
example of indiscriminate bestowal of higher
learning.
Personally, Mr. Ferris, with his careless
dress, his undecided face, burning eyes and
quick and endless speech, was a type that
colored people as a whole received with open
mouth. Why should a man speculate on the
ultimate end of things instead of on victuals ?
What was the value of philosophy as com-
pared with shoes? Was not all this ridicu-
lous? Of course the white world has had
experience with personal eccentricity and has
learned with Rodin that the thinker may sit
hungry and naked and yet rule the world.
• Mr. Ferris is showing something like this
again to the world. His book, in style and
conception, belongs to an earlier decade. It
is diffuse and pedantic. But it has, after all,
the saving grace without which nothing is
worth while and with which much is for-
given ; it represents thought and acquaintance
with thought. It has breadth and conviction.
The first volume of 522 pages is in four
parts: A treatise on a philosophy of his-
tory with curious personal revelation; a
second and third part are a sort of
psychology of the race problem in America;
then comes the fourth part, which is con-
tinued into the 460 pages of the second
volume and is largely historical. The fifth
and sixth parts are biographical. A third
volume will also be biographical.
The work will be criticised as illogical and
padded, but it represents much knowledge;
it is keen and even brilliant in parts and its
very faults have a peculiarly human feeling
about them. The book deserves to be in every
Negro’s library. It will not be read through,
but it will be read.
A TRIBUNE OF THE BLACK PEOPLE.*
rT7 HE touching tribute of a daughter to
the father who idolized her is here
enhanced in value by the fact that Norris
Wright Cuney was one of the finest figures
which Negro blood has produced in America,
and his daughter a leader in the musical de-
velopment of the race. The volume of 230
pages is at once an intimate personal
portrait and a history of the political for-
tunes of the Negro race from the end of
Reconstruction to 1S96. The book is invalu-
able to the student of the Negro problem. It
is natural that the author should err on the
side of overleniency toward her father’s acts,
but perhaps there is less oi this than one
would expect.
This is the kind of book that should be
dropped into the path of every colored boy
to-day.
•Norris Wright Cuney. By Maud Cuney Hare.
Introduction by James S. Clarkson._	230 pages.
The Crisis Publishing Company. $1.50,
postpaid.
HAZEL.*
"TUT AZEL” will come as a boon to many a
puzzled parent. Everything the
colored child sees, hears and reads is about
white folk. About herself and her people
she hears so little that she forgets them,
until bitter prejudice awakens her and leaves
her startled, facing an unknown, unrealized
world. Deftly and gently Miss Ovington, with
a rare feeling for the delicacy of the task,
takes the colored child in hand and leads her.
She avoids, on one hand, the Scylla of ter-
rifying revelation; on the other hand, the
Charybdis of meaningless molasses. The child
that reads “Hazel” will read it happily and
will ask for more; and beyond that she will
begin to think of things she had not noticed
or known before, but she will think of it
all rationally and calmly, for the color prob-
lems involved are such as to arouse curiosity
and sympathy rather than passion.
We recommend the book to colored chil-
dren almost as heartily as to white.
♦The African Abroad. By William H. Ferris, A. M.
Two volumes, 982 pages. Tuttle, Moorehouse &
Tavlor Press, 1913.	$5; postage, 30 cents.
♦Hazel. By Mary White Ovington. Illustrations by
Harry Roseland. Crisis Publishing Company,
1913.	162 pages. $1; postage, 8 cents.
148
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
SCHOOL OF BEAUTY CULTURE AND HAIR DRESSING
Kelsey's Hslr Dressing, Hair Grower, Scalp Tonic and Face Lotion have no oqqol. Price, 60c each.
Guaranteed under Food and Drug Act, Juuo 30, 1906.
KELSEY’S
Telephone, Momlngslde 8162
143 West 131st St.
NEW YORK
Manicuring, Shampooing, Hair Dressing, Marcel Wav-
ing, Facial and Body Massago. Hair Making, Chiropody,
etc., scientifically taught. Unlimited practice in parlor
day and night. Pupils taught at homo, if desired.
Diplomas. Special Summer Course, S7.50 up. Send for
booklet. Mme. A. Carter Kolsoy, Gon’l Instr.; Dr. Samuel
A. Kelsey, Chiropodist, President and Gen'l Manager.
MUTUAL TEACHERS’
AGENCY
Recommends teachers for schools; secures
employment for teachers. Blanks and
information furnished free on application.
1335 T Street, N. W. Washington, D. C.
Only
$65.00


No. 24 Southern Buggy
Highest Grade
A Value Unrqualed. Sold on f i .00
Profit Margin	From
Factory to User
W rite for prices
and other styles.
Send for catalogue.
C. R. PATTERSON
& SONS.
Greenfield, Ohio
Large't Negro Carriage concern In the United States.
WANTED—ONE MAN OR WOMAN IN EVERY
locality to start a Candy Kitchen. Best paying
small business on earth. Few dollars starts you.
Get away from wage slavery. Write for particu-
lars. Native Herbarium Co., Ambler, Pa.
T A K H U
Has solved the problem once for all. The surest,
safest hair grower. Has no equal. Contains no
harmful drugs or perfumes. A marvelous combina-
tion of ingredients essential to the health and growth
of hair. Stops hair from falling, makes it grow
long and beautiful, keeps the scalp clean and healthy.
Does away with all dandruff. Use Takhu and it
will prove to you the absolute truth of every claim
we make for it. Send to-day 35 cents for trial
bottle, or 60 cents for full size, and be convinced.
Do it now before you forget it.
WATERS BROTHERS, Sole Manufacturers
97 Wickliffe Street -	Newark, N. J„
WANTED
500 Negro families (farmers preferred)
to settle on FREE Government Lands in
Chaves County, New Mexico. Blackdom is
a Negro colony. Fertile soil, ideal climate.
No “Jim Crow” Laws. For information
write
JAS. HAROLD COLEMAN
Blackdom...New Mexico
WANTED—Traveler; a beginner; salary,
commission and expense money. Liberal
offer and agreement.
J. E. McBRADY, Chicago, 111.
REGALIA
A Race Enterprise
Manufacturing Badges,
Banners and Supplies
for all Fraternal and
Church Societies. Cata-
logue upon request.
CENTRAL REGALIA CO.
Jos. L. Jones, Pres.
N. E. Cor. 8th and Plum Sts.
Cincinnati, Ohio
Start a Mail Order Business and Make Money
You can operate in your own homo during spare
time. The parcel poBt has opened up the doors of
opportunity to YOU. Others are making $20 to
$500 a week. Why can’t you? By our method
you can start with $5 and up. We offer you thirty
live, money-making mail order plans. You can
make 95 cents profit on every dollar order. We
furnish circulars, printed matter and place your
advertising at lowest rates. Send 10 cents for
complete outfit. Do it to-day—Now!
MAIL DEALERS WHOLESALE HOUSE
617 Dearborn Street	Chicago, HL
COLORED MEN
WANTED TO PREPARE AS
SLEEPING-CAR AND TRAIN
PORTERS.
No experience necessary. Posi-
tions pay $65 to $100 a month.
Steady work. New York roads.
Passes and uniforms furnished when
necessary. Write now.
I.	RY. C. I., Dept. 19, Indianapolis, Ind.
HOMES IN NEW YORK SUBURB
Jamaica is one of the largest and most progressive of the many suburbs of New York City.
It is only 18 minutes from the big city, with a large number of wealthy residences. Fine 6 and
8-room houses, bath, steam heat, hardwood trim, on 10-foot lots, $3,600; also small farms at
small cost. Write for particulars. Winter prices are cheapest.
QUEENS REALTY CO. Box 196 JAMAICA, L. I.
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
149
The Thomas School of Beauty Culture
is owned and con-
trolled by a woman
who is a college
graduate and a
physician as well
as a graduate of
Burnham’s School
of Beauty Culture.
• Madam Mason is
giving a corre-
spondence course
which includes
physical culture
and hygiene. Every
woman needs to be
at her best in
every walk of life.
Personal appear-
ance is a lever
which controls her
destiny. Aside
from her own needs
she is afforded an
opportunity	t o
learn a profession
that means a digni-
fied, lucrative business which is in great
demand. The course covers ten weeks and a
diploma is granted. Entire fee for course, $10.
Thomas’s Magic Hair Grower, a guaran-
teed money-back article, a medicine that
cures dandruff, eczema, bald spots and pro-
motes the natural growth of the hair.
Price $1.
Thomas’s Cream removes blemishes. Price
50 cents. Send six cents for Beauty Book.
Agents wanted. Address
Mme. Alice H. Thomas-Mason
3328 State Street	Chicago, 111.
Telephones: Douglas 9-156: Automatic 72172
THE MUSIC SCHOOL SETTLE-
MENT FOR COLORED PEOPLE
of the City of New York hereby
announces a MUSICAL PRIZE
COMPETITION for $100 on the
following terms and conditions:
The competitors must be colored people
and citizens of the United States.
There is no restriction as to the form of
the compositions submitted.
The compositions submitted must be un-
published manuscripts.
Each composition must bear a motto or
sign of identification, but not the name of
the composer.
The manuscript should be accompanied by
a sealed envelope containing the name and
address of composer. The title of the manu-
script. together with the motto or sign,
should be on the outside of the envelope.
All manuscripts should be sent :o the
following address on or before the first day
of February, 1914:
MUSIC SCHOOL COMPETITION
3 EAST 43d ST., NEW YORK
The judges will te David Mannes, Kurt
Schindler and Rudolph E. Schirmer.
If any further information is required, it
may be obtained of David I. Martin, Director
of the Music School Settlement for Colored
People, 257 West 134th Street, New York.
MILES M. WEBB
Chicago’s Expert Photographer
I specialize in every phase of artistic picture
making. Send me your photos for enlargements.
Prices reasonable. Satisfaction guaranteed. 'Phone
6688 Douglass.
WEBB STUDIO
3519 State Street	Chicago, 111.
TheLoyalKnightsand
Ladies of Malachites
Grand Supreme
Governor
is incorporated under the
laws of the District of Col-
umbia. Its Object is to com-
bine the Negroes of the
world for their mutual ad-
vancement along indus-
trial and commercial lines.
It also stands for the full
enjoyment by the Negro of
his civil and political rights.
This movement is interna-
tional in its scope; we have
lodges not only in the United States but in
Jamaica, B. W. I* Colon, Bocas del Toro, Pan-
ama (Canal Zone) and Costa Rica. It is a dark
day for the Negro and he must come together.
Race movements have failed because our peo-
ple were told that by contributing thereto the
race only would be benefited, but no tangible
individaal benefits were offered. By our plan
the member pays 35c. per month in the Asso-
ciation and receives $4.00 per week sick ben-
efits and $100 at death. We not only look
after the race but each individual member as
well. A bigeonvention is soon to be held here.
We want a lodge in every* village, hamlet and
town and a delegate to be sent to this conven-
tion. Organizers wanted everywhere. For
full particulars, write
KNIGHTS OF MALACHITES
1111 You St. N. W. Washington, D. C. A
To Reach
150,000	Intelligent Readers
Advertise in
THE CRISIS
Mention The Crisis.
150
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
THE CRISIS IS THE OFFICIAL ORGAN OF
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE
ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE
The Crisis was started under the NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
three years ago after it had called Dr. Du Bois from Atlanta Univer-
sity as Director of Publicity and Research. The NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION still publishes The Crisis. The Crisis is its mouth-
piece. Through it the ASSOCIATION speaks each month to
150,000	readers. From them it now seeks a reply.
You like The Crisis. Why not join the ASSOCIATION which
it represents?
The NATIONAL ASSOCIATION has nearly 2,000 paying
members, 80 per cent, of whom are colored. It wants 200,000. The
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION represents YOU. It fights YOUR
battles.
Are YOU a member? If not, fill out and return this member-
ship blank.
MEMBERSHIP BLANK
I hereby accept membership in the NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE
ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE.
Please find enclosed-__dollars and enter my name as a member in Class
_______paying $-------a year, and send me THE CRISIS.
Name_______
Address.
Class 1. Donors, paying $100 to $500 per
year.
Class 2. Sustaining Members, paying
$25 per year.
Class 3. Contributing Members, paying
$2 to $10 per year.
Class 4. Associate Members, paying $1
per year.
The subscription to THE CRISIS is $1 extra, except to members paying $2 or more,
who signify their wish that $1 of their dues be considered a CRISIS subscription.
All members in good standing have the privilege of attending and voting at the
Annual Meeting of the Association.
PLEASE MAKE CHECKS PAYABLE TO NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOB THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLOBED PEOPLE. 28 VESEY 8TBEET, NEW YORK CITY.
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
151
LEGAL DIRECTORY
Residence 2546 Michigan	Office Phone
Bell Phone E-2161	Home 58 Main
C.	H. CALLOWAY
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Notary Public
117 W. 6th Street	Kansas City, Mo.
Telephones: / Central 1<>4-\V
l .Main Cl
HARRY E. DAVIS
Attorney-at-Law	Notary Public
1607 Williamson Building -	Cleveland, O.
Office L. D. Telephone 3297 Market
Residence L. D. Telephone 5277-M Market
GEORGE A. DOUGLAS
Counselor-at-Law
Rooms 613-614, Metropolitan Building
113 Market St., Cor. Washington, Newark, N. J.
General Practice	Notary Public
WILLIAM R. MORRIS
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
1020 Metropolitan Life Building
Minneapolis..........................Minn.
BROWN S. SMITH
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Offices:	Suite 610, Sykes Block
Minneapolis..........................Minn.
GEORGE W. MITCHELL
Attornev-at-Law
908 Walnut Street
Philadelphia........................Pa.
Tel. 2026 Fort Hill	Cable Address, Epben
EDGAR P. BENJAMIN
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
34 School Street...............Boston, Mass.
Telephone Connection
W. Ashbie Hawkins	George W. F. McMechen
HAWKINS & McMECHEN
Attorneys-at-Law
21 East Saratoga Street -	-	- Baltimore, Md.
Phones: Office, Bell 4059; New 420-M
Residence, New 733-A
THOS. E. GREENE, JR.
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Notary Public
Maloney Block -	Youngstown, Ohio
LEGAL DIRECTORY--Continued
Telephones: j
Office, Main 9168
Residence. Vermont 1156
E. BURTON CERUTI
Lawyer
500-501-502 Thorpe Building
Corner Broadway and Franklin Streets
Residence: 1540 W. 36th Place, Los Angeles, Cal.
PERSONAL CARDS
Telephone 5277 Morningside
DR. GERTRUDE E. CURTIS
Surgeon Dentist
188 W. 135th Street -	-	-	- New York City
Telephone 4885 Morningside
DR. D. W. ONLEY
Surgeon Dentist
S. W. Cor. 133d St. and Lenox Ave., New York
Office Hours: 9 to 12 a. m.; 1 to 9 p. m.
Sundays by Appointment
Telephone Connection
R. W. FEARING
Electrician
Contracting, Repairing. Motors, Electric and
Gas Fixtures
Electrician recent Emancipation Exposition in
New York
85 Marion Street -	Brooklyn, N. Y.
Telephone Columbus 3935	Open All Night
RODNEY DADE & BROS.
Undertakers and Embalmers
Notary Public
Funeral Parlor and Chapel Free
Licensed Lady Embalmer	Prompt Service
266 West 53d Street -	New York City
Between Broadway and 8th Avenue
MME. FANNIE BELLE DE KNIGHT
Dramatic and Dialect Reader. Engagements so-
licited. Students given special training in the
Delsarte Method. Instruction also given in Dialect,
English Grammar and Rhetoric.
Terms Reasonable.
Telephone Morningside 9045
Studio: 231 W. 134th St.	New York City
ARCHITECTS
TANDY & FOSTER
Architects
1931 Broadway	New York
Telephone 5368 Columbus
William H. Austin	Edmund O. Austin
Law Offices of
AUSTIN & AUSTIN
St. Paul Building, 220 Broadway, New York
Suite 7—H. I. J, K
Telephones: 7400, 5365, 5366 Cortlandt
B.	F. BOOTH
Attorney-at-Law
57 N. Second Street
Memphis............................Tenn.
H.	HENRY • HARRIS
Architect
Corner 8th and Princess Streets
Wilmington ------ N. C.
WILLIAM L. BELL
Architect
138^2 Auburn Avenue -	- Atlanta, Ga.
Mention The Crisis.
152
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
$60 A WEEK and EXPENSES
cola readied. Poll
roB. hill/ ia on mabrella. I teO yoa tt'o
Hmt Jhtexl I must YOU to Isualb jot c
YOU!
YESYOU
CAN GET IT
rijrfrt and baTL Oak*
Ink at Ika no. Kunih. Ohio, rccrircri &340 Crd nk;
• too d«|»; Cardona. Near Tort. $114 tn CO fcsnrn: Rentes.
CalifarMa. $80 in throo daja. Yea ran do an wdL TWO
RALP A HAY MEANS $380 A MONTH- Yto eerie Is WT
*4. don't bnslfato. dsn*t hold tack. Yon ausaot
’ other Baen are baUdins bnoo. bank r-rexrantn, ®
Ad. then. Quick. SEND NO MONEY. Jast nsw
Vast card fer free tub a£Tcr. ELnrAto!
Ho S. ROBINSON
190 Vance St_ Toledo, O.
DEMONSTRATING
TUB FREE
Homes in Long Island!
Few people realize the wonderful possibilities of Long Island
property, the rapid growth of that section of the city and its wonderful
future.
WE ARE SELLING GOOD HOMES IN CORONA, with all
improvements, only five cents carfare to New York. Corona is in the
very center of Greater New York, and in a few months will be reached
by the rapid transit lines of Manhattan, giving to the people of that
section of the city a five-cent carfare to any section of Manhattan.
The only place within thirty minutes of Times Square, Grand
Central Station or the Pennsylvania Station, where the man of small
means can get a modern home with all improvements at a moderate
cost- We would be glad to have-you visit Corona at our expense.
Corona is one of the highest elevations in New York City, has an
excellent car service, good schools, excellent water supply and the best
place in all New York for children. For full particulars as to price
and terms address
L. S. REED & COMPANY
142 Hunter Avenue ------- Long Island City
Some choice investment lots for $50 on reasonable terms
Mention The Caisis.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
153
RELIABLE, LIVE,
RESPONSIBLE MEN
who can sell real estate can MAKE MORE
than $200 PER MONTH acting as
AGENTS for the sale of our properties in
MUSKOGEE and TAFT, OKLAHOMA.
The real coming country where there are
opportunities and openings for alL Write
us to-day, giving your age and experience,
and we will offer you a FINE PROPOSI-
TION WHICH WILL MAKE YOU
MONEY. Address
REEVES REALTY CO.
D«7sit=tcaS C
217 Flynn-Ames Bldg. Muskogee, Okla.
$25.00 PER WEEK
may be made in commissions by parties handling
“History of Negro Soldiers in Span ish-Ameri can
War” combined with “History of the Negro Race.”
400 pages, 50 illustrations. Price $1.25 net.
Address:	IL A. JOHN305
154 Haasan Street ----- Hew York
START RIGHT—GET A
Yacraim Clothes Washer
THE UTILITIES MAKE
Patented Angnst, 1909. Ho. 930,733
This washer sells for $3.50. It saves time, money
and labor. Washing better done with one-tenth
the labor formerly expended.
The machine is cheap and simple of operation. A
real money-maker. Agents wanted. Write na
Special offer:	For thirty days with each paid
order for this washer we will give one year’s paid-
up subscription to THE CRISIS- Address:
GEORGE YOUHG
135 West 135th Street -	-	- New York City
Highly artistic post cards of
Negro subjects in colors. Large
assortment. We have added
Washington, Du Bo is, Dunbar,
Douglass, George Walker, Aida
Overton Walker.
We are getting out new
calendars of Negro subjects.
Send us your order now for 1915
calendars.
We have cards for every holi-
day in the year. Samples of all
post cards sent for 15 cents,
postpaid. Agents, retailer, send
for terms.
J. GRIFFITH ART GO.
36-38 Beekman St. N. Y. City
Was Jesus a Negro
with Woolly Hair ?
Webb’s books and pictures prove
it and show it by the Bible. A
picture, 12x18, of Jesus with
woolly hair, and His Holy Angels
at His second coming, and a book
with Biblical references, extending
from Genesis to Revelations, prov-
ing the fact. All (or $1.50 and
postage prepaid. The book alone
is worth its price.
The following are comments upon the same:
“I	beg	to	say, after hearing Elder Webb on
the subject, that the blood of the Negro coursed
through the veins of Jesus and Solomon. I am
frank to say that I have seldom, if ever, enjoyed
snch	an	intellectual treat. The position he
assumed as the subject of his lecture touching the
Hametic blood and race is difficult and requires a
practical knowledee of Biblical and historical lore.
But I am pleased to say that he not only shows
himself an expert, but the master of the situation,
and I commend him to the ministry and churches
of our race of every denomination.”
Truly,
(Signed) Bishop H. M. TURNER.
"The evidence submitted by Elder Webb tending to pro re
that the Saviour of mankind was a hi ark man seems to be
anfftriroi to put those who oppose the proposition upon their
proof. Now that the chain of e ride nee presented by Mr.
Webb appears so complete, it is strange that none of the
del ten in the Biblical records hare not advanced the sensa-
tional proposition before. Not only was Christ a Negro,
but it seems that Solomon, who has been held up through
all the ages as the personification of wisdom, had Ethiopian
hlood in his reins, also."—Seattle "Dally Times."
Price $1.50 for picture and book. Send money
order or express order to James M. Webb, 3519
State Street, Chicago, HL, in the care of the Webb
Studio.
WANTED
Agents for The Crisis. Dignified work
Address: 26 Vesey Street, New York
James Webb
Mention Thk Crisis.
154
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
The Final Word in Typewriter
Efficiency Was Written by the
Underwood
When, operated by Margaret B. Owen,
World’s Champion Typist, at the unprece-
dented rate of 125 net words a minute for
one hour, it won for the eighth consecutive
year possession of the
Thousand Dollar Silver
Trophy Cup
Underwood
“The Machine You Will Eventually Buy”
OUR REGENT PUBLICATIONS
HAZEL. By Mary White Ovington. $1.00 net. By mail $1.08.
NORRIS WRIGHT CUNEY. By Maud Cuney Hare. $1.50, including postage.
THE CRISIS PUBLISHING COMPANY
26 Vesey Street -	--	--	--	--	- New York City
Mention The Crisis.
The African Abroad or His Evolution
in Western Civilization
By WILLIAM H. FERRIS, A. M.
Two volumes of 500 pages each, illustrated. $5 a set, plus 30c. postage.
Published by the Tuttle, Morehouse & Taylor Go., New Haven, Conn.
PRESS COMMENTS
FROM THE “SCHOOL JOURNAL,” OCTOBER, 1913
“There come occasionally from the press, books of weight and moment, works of research
and investigation or of wide reading and of clear thought, treatises froir which the world of
culture never recovers. Such is ‘The African Abroad,’ distinctly radical in its treatment,
distinctly revolutionary in its result, and altogether true as a whole in content and in expres-
sion. The Afro-American must put on the spiritual clothing of the Anglo-American, must live
his institutional life, must think and feel accordingly. From Africa came every Afro-
European race. The Ethiopians and the Negroes are descendants of the same stock as the
I.atins and Teutons, a proposition beyond censure and cavil. As one reads these great pages
of a faithful investigator and witness one must regret that the author in common decency could
not include among colored Americans thousands as have ‘crossed the line and come white.’ Yet
enough persons remain to prove indisputably that the black Negro and the colored man are
essentially human, needing only education and opportunity to live upon the same level as
white men. This is not to say one word in favor of social equality in marriage. In truth
the whole weight of this monumental work rests upon the side of the scale whereon are
written these words: ‘The colored man, as such, remaining true to whatever amalgamation he
now represents, can become equal sharer with the white man in American liberty.’ Such
a book tends to develop in Afro-Americans that self-respect which is essential to human worth.
The author reveals a charming style and an interesting personality. This admirable work of
race historical philosophy is of epochal importance and belongs in- every library of scholarship
anywhere in the world.”
FROM THE NEW BEDFORD “STANDARD,” SEPTEMBER 30, 1913
“Six thousand years of history as related to the Negro race and the summing up of
his careers of a thousand exceptional men of color in many countries of Europe, in Africa, and
the West Indies, is a plain prosaic statement of the scope of William H. Ferris’s two-volume
book on ‘The African	Abroad,	or His	Evolution in Western Civilization. Tracing His Develop-
ment Under Caucasian	Milieu.’	If this	title,	formal and scholarly, suggests a scholarly treatment
of the subject, really profound and tremendously in earnest, it suggests truly, for it is a
deep and precise study in all the aspects of importance of the subject. But if the formal
title suggests any thought of dry reading, there begins the mistake, for Mr. Ferris's book is
as interesting as romance and as stirring as the most appealing piece of history ever written.
“Mr. Ferris is pre-eminently fitted for his task. He is recognized by scholars and
statesmen as a man of unusual intellectual ability measured by standards of scholarship and
not by race or color. He has taken degrees at Yale and Harvard; and he has since then
gained the knowledge and experience that have come from travel through twenty States and
sojourning in over two hundred cities	and	towns, looking into the Negro question as it pre-
sents itself as a live	problem	to-day,	and	from study of the literature of the world on the
subject of the Negro back to its beginning.”
FROM THE SPRINGFIELD “REPUBLICAN,” OCTOBER 1, 1913
“And now we have at New Haven a philosophical writer who has profited by a good
university education, and publishes two volumes of mixed speculation—history and biography—
extending in its scope from the councils of the Absolute before worlds existed, and thereafter
from the undifferentiated star-dust through differentiated worlds, down not only to our modern
days, but beyond; by an excursion into the future we contemplate the burning out of the
sun, and the consequent starvation of the whole solar system. * * *
“* * * In this world’s affairs, Mr. Ferris has good testimonials as to his competence
for writing the story of his race. * * *
“* * * In history he is well read and pacific; he admires T. R.. but not excessively; and
he states his case in .history very forcibly. A few flaws can be found by searching, but hardly
more than any book in two volumes can show. There is to be a third volume, in which the
never-ending subject is to be temporarily concluded. * * *
“* * * The important thing with the Negro, as with other men, is his religion. On
that point Mr. Ferris has much to say, and says it well; but perhaps with too little reference
to the modifying American religion of the colored race here. * * *
“* * * It will be seen that Mr. Ferris writes easily and fluently. He quotes freely
but without much system in his citations; has read immensely and thought sufficiently; flatter's
in his biographies and brief notices; and when his work is completed and indexed, it will be
of great value.”
Address orders to
W. H. FERRIS, 92 Eaton Street, New Haven, Conn., U. S. A.
or to the
TUTTLE, MOREHOUSE & TAYLOR GO., New Haven, Gonn.
Mention The Crisis.
cThz	Art of Printing
AS EXEMPLIFIED IN OUR WORK EMBODIES THE FOL- LOWING POINTS OF MERIT:	
	j (a) Neat 1. Stationery	•< (b) Attractive ( (c) Quality
	f (a) Polite 2. Form	■< (b) Business ( (c) Social
	I (a) Artistic 3. Workmanship -< (b) Correct ((c) Prompt
	We Print THE CRISIS
ROBERT N. WOOD, Printing and Engraving 202 EAST 99th STREET	Telephone: Lenox 0067	NEW YORK	
Provident Hospital and Training School
for Colored Nurses
Aim: To keep its technic equal to the best
Founded 1891
The first training school for colored
nurses in this country, Freedman’s
excepted.
Comprises a training school for
nurses, hospital, dispensary, and
thoroughly equipped children’s depart-
ment; when funds are ample, post-
graduate work may be undertaken.
The hospital is open to all. The
races co-operate in the board of
trustees, in the medical stall and in
administration; tho institution is the
only one of its kind in which n colored
man may act as interne.
Cost of buildings and equipment,
$100,000; free from debt. Endowment,
$50,000, contributed mostly by wills
made by colored men. Additional
endowment needed, $50,000.
The nurses’ course covers three
years; training and instruction given
by both races, according to the highest
modern standards.
jmxi -.•=^7;	e&w**

36th and Dearborn Sts., Chicago, III.
Mention 'Pirn Ckisis.
OUR NEW ADDRESS IS 70 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK
THE CRISIS
Vol. 7—No. 4
FEBRUARY, 1914
WLole No. 40

I
ONE DOLLAR A YEAR
TEN CENTS A COPY
<The National Religious Training School
"1 cordially commend the school’s interest and needs to all who believe
in the Negro race and in our obligation to help promote its intellectual,
moral and religious uplift.”
—Rkv. Dr. Charles H. Parkhurst, New York City.
IT IS MORE THAN A MERE SCHOOL
IT IS A COMMUNITY OF SERVICE AND UPLIFT
Its influence is destined to be felt in all sections of the country in improved
Negro community life wherever our trained workers locate.
Settlement workers, missionaries for home and foreign mission fields,
Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A. secretaries and district nurses receive a compre-
hensive grasp of their studies under a Wellesley graduate and experienced
co-workers and actual every-day practice through the school’s SOCIAL
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
We aim also to create a better qualified ministry.
Industrial training, advanced literary branches, business school.
Thirty-two acres; ten modern buildings; healthful location.
We can accommodate a few more earnest, ambitious students.
Communities requiring social workers should write us.
For catalog and detailed information address:
PRESIDENT JAMES E. SHEPARD
National Religious Training School -	--	--	--	-- - Durham, N. C.
The school has no endowment fund and must raise a yearly maintenance
fund of $15,000 for running expenses. Won’t you help us this year?
1914
Crisis Calendar
Contains four leaves, neatly
tied and ready for hanging,
each leaf bearing a Crisis
picture.
Let each day remind you of
The Crisis and its creed.
PRICE 15 CENTS
THE CRISIS
70 Fifth Ave., New York City
Crisis Advertising Rates
c--~	.....;	:■	"	■ -sa
Beginning with the January. 1914,
issue, and continuing until further
notice, the rates for advertisements in
The Crisis are as follows:
15 cents per agate line. No less
than four lines accepted.
$2 per inch per single column,
counting fourteen lines to the inch.
$45 for back cover.
$40 for inside cover page, front or
back.
$32 per page for other pages.
These rates are based upon the
general charge of $1 per page for
each thousand net circulation.
Old contracts at the former rates
will be honored until the date of
expiration of said contracts.
THE CRISIS
70 Fifth Ave., New York City
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS
A RECORD OF THE DARKER RACES
PUBLISHED BY THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE, AT 70 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK CITY
Conducted by
W. E, BURGHARDT DU BOIS
. AUGUSTUS GRANVILLE DILL Business Manager
Contents for Februaryy 1914
PICTURES
COVER PICTURE. By A. B. Jones.
Page
HIS MAJESTY, THE LATE MENELIK II., KING OF THE KINGS
OF ETHIOPIA, EMPEROR OF ABYSSINIA, 1844-1913.. 182
ARTICLES
THE PHILADELPHIA NEGRO DENTIST. By J. Max Barber.	179
THE EPISCOPAL CHURCH............................ 181
CERTAINTY. A Poem. By Leslie Pinckney Hill...... 181
ANNUAL MEETING OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR
THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE............ 191
THE HOODOO. A Story. By Martha Gruening.......... 195
DEPARTMENTS
ALONG THE COLOR LINE..........................   163
OPINION......................................... 171
MEN OF THE MONTH................................ 184
EDITORIAL....................................... 186
THE BURDEN.....................................  199
A LITTLE PILE OF BOOKS AND PAMPHLETS............ 201
TEN CENTS A COPY; ONE DOLLAR A YEAR
FOREIGN SUBSCRIPTIONS TWENTY-FIVE CENTS EXTRA
RENEWALS:	When a subscription blank is attached to this page a renewal of your
subscription is desired. The date of the expiration of your subscription will be found on the
wrapper.
CHANGE OF ADDRESS: The address of a subscriber can be changed as often as desired.
In ordering a change of address, both the old and the new address must be given. Two weeks’
notice is required.	«
MANUSCRIPTS and drawings relating to colored people are desired. They must be accom-
panied by return postage. If found unavailable they will be returned.
Entered as Second-class Matter in the Post Office at New York, N. Y.
160
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
Atlanta University
Is beautifully located in the City of Atlanta, Ga.
The courses of study include High School, Nor-
mal School and College, with manual training
and domestic science. Among the teachers are
graduates of Yale, Harvard, Dartmouth, Smith
and Wellesley. Forty-two years of successful
work have been completed. Students come from
all parts of the South. Graduates ore almost
universally successful.
For further information address
President EDWARD T. WARE
ATLANTA, GA.
Knoxville College
Beautiful Situation. Healthful Location.
The Best Moral and Spiritual Environment.
A Splendid Intellectual Atmosphere.
Noted for Honest and Thorough Work.
Offers full courses in the following departments:
College, Normal, High School, Grammar School and
Industrial.
Good water, steam heat, electric" lights, good
drainage. Expenses very reasonable.
Opportunity for Self-help.
Fall Term Began September, 1913.
For information address
President R. W. McGRANAHAN
KNOXVILLE, TENN.
The Agricultural and
Mechanical College
Maintained by the govern-
ments of North Carolina and of
the United States. Open all the
year rqund. For males only.
Spring term begins March 2,
1914.	Board, lodging and tuition,
$7 per month. Best opportunities
for Negro youth. Night school
for indigent but ambitious young
men. For catalog or further
information, address
PRESIDENT DUDLEY
A. & M. College Greensboro, N. C.
LINCOLN INSTITUTE
Jefferson City, Missouri
Founded by the Negro soldiers of
the 64th and 65th Regiments. Sup-
ported by the State of Missouri.
One of the best-equipped schools
in the country for the education of
Negro boys and girls. Normal,
Collegiate, Agricultural and Indus-
trial Courses. Normal diplomas
carrying with them the degree B. Pd.
are life certificates to teach in the
public schools of Missouri. The
degree A. B. conferred upon those
who complete the collegiate course.
Four teachers of Music: Voice Cul-
ture, Piano, Violin, Band and
Orchestra Practice. Elocution and
Athletics.
Board $9.50 a month. Tuition $3.00 the
year to Missouri students. All others pay
$13.00 a year. Catalog free.
B. F. ALLEN, A. M., LL. D.
President.
ST. MARY’S SCHOOL
An Episcopal boarding and day school
for girls, under the direction of the Sisters
of St. Mary. Address:
THE SISTER-IN-CHARGE
611 N. 43d St.	W. Philadelphia, Pa.
CARNEGIE COLLEGE-HOME STUDY
“60 PAGE BULLETIN FREE”
COURSES BY MAIL
Grammar School Agricultural
High School
Norma
Profesaiona
Penmanahip
Type-writing
Short-hand
Book-keeping
Law
Poultry
Domeatic Science
Civil Service
Engineering
Drawing
English
Language
Real Estate
Prtsa. GAJ.BREATTI
Reduced rates of tuition to first
applicants. For "Free Bulletin"
and "Special Scholarship." apply
CARNEG1K COLLEGE
No. 1BD St.. ROGERS. Ohio.
Negro in American History
Traces status of the Negro from dis-
covery, colonization and settlement to
20th century. Also gives biographical
sketches of eminent men and women.
To every instructor of colored youth
and every student, in secondary schools
this work is especially commended.
Full bibliography, chronology and
comprehensive index. Illustrations.
$1.25; by postage, $1.40. Agents
wanted. Address:
J. W. CROMWELL
1439 Swann St., N. W. Washington, D. O.
Mention The Crisis
to £□ to tun ta pa Da to tEa
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
161
Hammerless,
Double-Barrel Shot
Gun—very superior. Fitted with
top snap-break, bar side locks, forged
frame, case hardened locks and frames. JB
Nicely finished, highly polished stock and
fore end. Polished blued steel barrels; *
choke bored, 12 Gauge and either 30 or 32
inch barrels. Well balanced and accurate. ■-]
A perfect beauty. The same model used by J3
some of the best shots in the country. We give it r-i
Absolutely FREE to Our Agents 5
All that we require is that you show our Z!
samples and take a few orders for our
special made-to-measure clothes. We
pay highest cash profits and give extra
presents besides* Your choice of 628
valuable premiums—such as Leather Suit
Cases, Musical Instruments, Pipes,
Watches, Sporting Goods, Hats, etc.
Write for elegant free outfit and full particulars
SPENCER MEAD CO., Dept. 711. CHICAGO
ft
ft
ft
ilfVADay
t1®	■ FOR YOUR
SPARE TIME
AGENTS WANTED
raorei
their spare time. Many are beating that and are
getting their own clothes FREE. We are dead
eure you can do it. Such a thing as failure is
utterly impossible with our new and complete
outfit which we send you—all charges prepaid.
Our fine line of stylish, well made, carefully fin-
iahed clothes, guaranteed fit—boats everything
ever offered. Lowest prices. Our Outfit is magnif-
icent—our styles ana fashions simply wonderful.
Strong selling plans that bring the orders and
Big Money for you every week, in hard naah.
OO
UP
Can yon beat it? Be a PROGRESS agent. Earn
$5 to $10 a day In your spare time while doing
other work. Send no money. Everything is FREE.
No experience necessary. Get the Outfit, order
blanks, stationery, tape-line and everything necessary
to start you in a Big Money Making Business of
your own. Write today. Be ready for the largest
Spring business ever known. Land the early
orders in bunches..
Progreso Tailoring: Co„ D«pt. 682 ,Chicago
Pants $2ul
Suits $9
A WEEK and EXPENSES
YOU!
YES.Y0U
CAN GET IT
That’s the money you can get this year. I mean It I want County Sales Managers
Quick, men or women who believe In the square deal, who will go Into partnership with
me. No capital or experience needed. My folding Bath Tub has taken the country by
storm. Solves the bathing problem. No plumbing, no water works required. Full length
bath In any room. Folds In small roll, handy as an umbrella. I tell you it's great!
GREAT I Rivals $100 bath room. Now listen I I want YOU to handle your county.
I'll fumlah demonstrating tub free. I’m positive—absolutely certain—you can get bigger
money in a week with me than you ever made In a month before—I KNOW IT 1
TWO SALES A DAY-----------------------$300 A MONTH
That's what you get—every month. Needed In every home, badly wanted, eagerly bought.
Modem bathing facilities for all the people. Take the orders right and left. Quick
sales. Immense profits. Look at these men. Kunkle. Ohio, received $240 first week;
Mathias. Florida, $120 In two days; Corrigan. New York, $114 In 60 hours; Newton.
California, $60 In three days. You can do as well. TWO
SALES A DAY MEANS $300 A MONTH. The wort: Is very
easy, pleasant, permanent, fascinating. It means a business
of your own.
I grant credit, furnish sample, help you out, back you ap—
don’t doubt, don’t hesitate, don't hold back. You cannot
lose. My other men are building homes, bank accounts, bo
can you. Act. then, quick. SEND NO MONEY. Just name
on penny post card for free tub offer. Hustle 1
H.
ROBINSON
President
190 Vance St., Toledo, O.
DEMONSTRATING
TUB FREE
Canadian Address: Walkerville, Ont., Canada.
Mention The Crisis
162
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
Facts of Reconstruction
By MAJOR JOHN R. LYNCH
In this book Major Lynch presents the
renders and thinkers of the present genera-
tion \yith accurate, .reliable and impartial
information, based upon his knowledge and
experience, about Reconstruction, the most
important and eventful epoch in our country’s
history.
Major Lynch, has been prominently before
tho public during the last forty years. He
was a member of Congress in 1876-7 and
wns an active participant in the decision of
• the closely contested election between Hayes
and Tilden for the Presidency of the United
States. Many interesting points in that con-
test not heretofore published will be found
in this book.
As a member of Congress, member of the
National Republican Committee, auditor for
the Navy Department, a member of many
National Republican Conventions, over one of
which he presided as temporary chairman,
Major Lynch was brought in contact with
many of the most prominent and influential
men of the country. The chapters giving an
account of his interviews with Presidents
Grant and Cleveland, and with Messrs. Blaine,
Lamar and Gresham, are botlj interesting and
instructive. The book ought to be in the
library of every home.
Prico, net $1.50. By mall, $1.65.
Address:
MAJOR JOHN R. LYNCH
4321 Forestville Ave.	Chicago, 111.
OF INTEREST TO VOCAL STUDENTS
TONE-PLACING AND
VOICE- DEVELOPMENT
Points explained, viz.: Breath
in Singing. Trying the Voice, the
Soprano, the Mezzo-Soprano, the
Contralto, Tenor Leggiero or High
Tenor, the Baritone, the Bass,
Parts of the Vocal Apparatus, tho
Mouth, the Tongue, Position When
Practising, Position When Singing,
How to Practice, Good Rules for
Singing.
Comment from the world-renowned oonductor of
the Paul is t Choir of Chicago, 111., whose choir has
just received the first prize awarded at the Sing-
ing Contest held in PariB on May 25, 1912:
"Dear Mr. Tinsley:
"1 take treat pleasure In commending your Tory useful and
succinctly written book on Tone-Placing and Voioe-Develop-
ment.’ Your own appreciation of the psychology of singing
and tha fundamental principles of the art you hare cleverly
reduced to a aim pie system.	Cordially yours,
"Father WILLIAM J. FINN. C. S. P..
Director Paullrt Choristers of Chicago."
From •'Musical Courier," N. Y.: "A very practical little
book Is Tone-Plaolng and Voloe-Development.' by Pedro T.
Tinsley. It contains some very excellent material and vocal
axerdsee, and should be in tho hands of all vocal students."
From "Music News." Chicago, 111.: "Accordingly his
‘Praotleai Method of Singing’ is a most concise and practical
little manual, containing many valuable vocal exercises. It
cannot fall to be helpful to all ambitious vocal students."
HELPED HIM GREATLY
"Since I practised your exercises of ‘Tone-Placing
and Voice-Development’ my voice is more resonant
than it has been for years. It seems to me that I
am getting a new voice." Prof. John T. Layton.
Director Coleridge-Taylor Musical Society, 1722 10th
St., N. W., Washington, D. 0.
PRICE $1.00
Address the publisher: PEDRO T. TINSLEY
6448 Drexel Avenue	CHICAGO, ILL.
Anyone In the “Brass Band” or "Stringed Orchestra" may
leam in a few hours to master the Instrument he loves with
our "Sight Reader" and "Sight Reader Positions.
SI (cash). Address
WILLIAM D. SMITH
1636 Clarion Strset...................Philadelphia, Pa.
Agents Are Making §10.00 Per Day
and more selling our famous Negro picture, "A
Joyful Welcome Into Heaven," the finest painting
ever produced with the Negro as a subject. Semi-
religious. Sells at sight. Send 15 cents in stamps
or coin for 50-cent sample and agent’s terms.
THE DOUGLAS SPECIALTIES COMPANY
3648 Vernon Ave.	Dept. K	Chicago, 111.
Atlanta University
Studies of the
Negr© Problems
17 Monographs	Sold Separately
Address:
ATLANTA UNIVERSITY CONFERENCE
Atlanta University, Atlanfa, Ga.
The Curse of Race Prejudice
By James F. Morton, Jr., A. M.
An aggressive exposure by an Anglo-Saxon
champion of equal rights. Startling facts and crush-
ing arguments. Fascinating reading. A necessity
for clear understanding and up-to-date, propaganda.
Belongs in the library of every friend of social
justice. Price 25 cents. Send orders to
JAMES F. MORTON, JR.
244 West 143d Street -	-	New York, N. Y.
A COLORED DOLLY FOR THE CHILD
Buy a beautiful colored doll, with lifelike features, long hair, jointed limbs and sleeping
eyes. The right _ plaything for your child. A big attraction at church fairs and bazaars.
Endorsed by leading clergymen and educators. Send for catalog. Agents wanted. Novelty
souvenirs and favors.
E. M. S. NOVELTY COMPANY, Dept, A., JAMAICA, N. Y.
Mention The Crisis
IHECRISIS
MUSIC AND ART.
A T the annual meeting of St. George’s
Club, of New York, Mr. Harry T.
Burleigh, the distinguished baritone-com-
poser of New York, in recognition of his
twenty years’ service as baritone soloist of
St. George’s Episcopal Church, was pre-
sented with a Tiffany watch bearing the
inscription: “The Brotherhood of Men to
Harry T. Burleigh, as a token of esteem
from his fellow members of St. George’s
Club, November 29, 1913.” The presenta-
tion was made by the rector, the Rev. Karl
Reiland.
<3 The program for the series of artists’
recitals which the Washington Conservatory
of Music (Mrs. Harriet Gibbs Marshall, direc-
tor) undertakes annually in Washington,
D.	C., at the Howard Theatre, began on
December 13, when Mrs. Marjorie Groves
Robinson, pianist, and Mr. William Speights,
tenor, were heard in piano and song recital.
Among their selections were numbers by
Clarence Cameron White, Rosamond John-
son, Will Marion Cook and Coleridge-
Tavlor. Miss Beatrice Lewis was the accom-
panist. Mrs. Robinson and Mr. Speights are
both graduates of the New England Con-
servatory of Music in Boston, and have
lately joined the faculty of the Washington
Conservatory. The concert series for 1914
will include a concert by the Conservatory
Folk Song Singers in January, a lecture
recital by Mrs. Maud Cuney Hare, pianist,
assisted by Mr. William H. Richardson,
baritone, in February, and a comic opera to
be presented by Mr. Speights in March.
Q A series of five recitals on folk songs,
folklore and folk dances in costume have
been presented at the Brooklyn Institute of
Arts and Sciences by Mrs. Alexina
Carter-Barrell, an American singer of
Boston, Mass. Negro and Creole folk songs
were given on December 3. Dr. W. E. B.
Du Bois was the lecturer; Mrs. Barrell,
soprano; Mellville Charlton, organist; Walter
Craig, violinist, and Henry L. Jeter, violon-
cellist, with Mrs. Dora Cole Norman, solo
dancer. On December 10 an Indian and
Mexican program was presented, with the
addition of Miss Lucille Perry Hall as solo
dancer.
<3 On December 14 Mr. Julian F. Adger,
organist, gave an organ recital under the
auspices of the Philadelphia Organists’
Alliance, at Cherry Memorial Church, Phila-
delphia, Pa. The assisting artists were Miss
Blanche Williams, soprano, and Miss Eliza-
beth Benson, pianist.
<3 On December 29 the Philadelphia Concert
Orchestra gave the first of a series of con-
certs for the season 1913-1914, at Philadel-
phia. The soloist was Miss Lydia C.
McClane, soprano, of Philadelphia. The
orchestra, which is in its ninth season, is
the first incorporated colored symphony
orchestra in the United States.
<1 Mr. T. Theo Taylor, pianist, and Mr.
Harrison Emanuel, violinist, of Chicago,
111., were heard in a joint recital on Novem-
ber 20, at Springfield, 111.
<3 Cloyd Boykin, the artist of Boston, Mass.,
sailed on November 29 for London. Mr.
164
THE CRISIS
Boykin is to have the advantage of a year’s
study of the art of England, France and
Italy.
<3 A new addition to American literature at
the close of the year is Mr. William Stanley
Braithwaite’s “Anthology of Magazine
Verse,” dedicated to
“The poets of America singing to-day,
The soul of their country,
Truth, Beauty, Brotherhood,
Their names are torches.”
Mrs. Estelle Ancrum Forster, of Boston,
gave a recital at Haynes Hall, Boston, on
December 10. Mrs. Forster was assisted by
Clarence Cameron White, violinist, Theo-
dore Drury, tenor, and Mrs. Clarence
Cameron White, accompanist.
The Renaissance Players, a company of
colored players, will give a series of plays
in Washington and other cities during the
present season. The purpose of the players
is to bring the best side of the Negro before
the public in contrast to the plays which
caricature the race. The company is offering
a prize of $25 for the best three-act drama.
James Reese Europe has resigned as presi-
dent of the Clef Club, and Daniel Kildare
has been elected to fill the position.
<3 The Hampton Singers, a chorus of forty
from Hampton Institute, were heard at
Carnegie Hall, New York, on January 27,
in Negro folk songs illustrating a motion-
picture pageant of agricultural life in the
South. The Hon. George McAneny, presi-
dent of the board of aldermen, spoke in
bebalf of Hampton, the first industrial
school for Negroes and Indians.
Mr. Roland W. Hayes, tenor, and Miss
Maria L. Baldwin, reader, appeared in recital
at the home of Mrs. Robert R. Gardiner in
Boston. Miss Baldwin read selections from
Paul Laurence Dunbar and Mr. Hayes’
songs were by Negro composers. The
Musical Courier says:	“Mr. Hayes,
whose entire vocal training has been received
during the last two years at the studio of
Arthur J. Hubbard, revealed himself as the
possessor not only of an uncommonly fine
voice, but of instinctive musicianship and
sincerity of purpose as well. In the voice
itself were the two essentials of quality and
body, while the results of his excellent train-
ing were seen in the perfect ease and freedom
of his tone production, the remarkable clarity
of his diction and the excellence of his
legato singing. The program was sufficiently
varied to. show the range of his vocal and
artistic accomplishments, which are nothing
short of remarkable considering the com-
paratively brief period he has been
studying.”	f
<3 The Saturday program at the Sherwood
Music School, of Chicago, was given on
November 29, by Mary Haines, who read
poems by Dunbar.
*1 George W. Blount writes in the Southern
Workman of Mr. Alexander Hughes, a
colored citizen of Springfield, Mass., who
was awarded the first prize for the best kept
lawn and most beautiful flower garden two
successive years. Mr. Hughes cultivates his
own gardens and also the vacant or neglected
lots of his neighbors before and after his
regular work hours. He gives flowers to the
hospitals and to strangers having no friends
near.
SOCIAL UPLIFT.
T7 DWARD REED, a little 11-year-
old colored boy, saved Marguerite
Williams, a 2-year-old white child, from
drowning in Kansas City, Mo. He pulled
the unconsicous child from the creek into
which she had slipped and resuscitated her
by applying first aid to the drowning as he
had learned to do in school.
<3 Colored people of Nashville, Tenn., con-
tributed more than $600 to the campaign
fund for the white Y. M. C. A.
The colored employees at Wanamaker’s,
in Philadelphia, have organized a Robert C.
Ogden Club in appreciation of Mr. Ogden’s
work among Negroes.
*3 The New York American, with the aid of
the Women’s Business League of Greater
New York, had more than 100 dolls dressed
and distributed among the poor colored
children as Christmas gifts.
<3 The colored women of Birmingham, Ala.,
are carrying on a campaign for a Y. W.
C.	A., which has resulted so far in over 800
paid-up members.
•I Resolutions condemning the use of the
small “n” in the word Negro were adopted
at one session of the emancipation celebra-
tion in Syracuse, N. Y.
' <3 James Selly and Clifton Parham, two
colored boys employed at the Alclyde apart-
ments in New York, rescued all of the in-
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
165
mates from the burning building. They
continued to run the elevator through fire
and smoke in spite of the danger to
themselves.
*1 A young colored man, G. A. Morgan, has
invented a breathing helmet and smoke pro-
tector for the use of firemen in fighting
flames. This helmet is in use in several large
cities of Ohio, New York and Pennsyl-
vania, and it is probable that New York City
will adopt it.
*1 In a large mass meeting of Negroes in
Atlanta, Ga., $5,375 was added to $11,500
already raised for the Y. M. C. A.
<3 It is said that Mrs. L. Brackett Bishop, a
white woman, the wife of a wealthy Chicago
man, will adopt fifteen 1-year-old children
from as many races in order to learn which
will develop faster under the same
conditions.
<1 Fulton 'County, Ga., has recently pur-
chased 400 acres of land for a reformatory
for colored boys and girls.
<3 Judith C. Horton, a young colored woman,
with five others, succeeded in getting funds
to begin a public library in Guthrie, Okla.
After the first payment upon the building
was made and the library was proving to be
a success and of great use to the community,
the city took over the library and assumed
the debt. This library’ was established in
1908 and was the first public library in the
Southwest.
A tuberculosis hospital for Negroes has
been established at Wilson, N. C. The
Grand Lodge of Masons in that State con-
tributed largely to it.
<1 The Missouri Grand Lodge of Colored
Odd Fellows has purchased land for the .erec-
tion of a home for aged members of the
order.
<1 The records of desertion from the. army
show that the colored Ninth» and Tenth
Cavalries and the white Fifth Infantry have
had the smallest number.	- •
<3 Sergeant W. H. Brice,' first sergeant of
the Twenty-fourth Infantry, has retired
after twenty-six years of service.
The Kentucky State Federation of Colored
Women’s Clubs has more than doubled its
membership in the past year. The federa-
tion has also established a scholarship loan
fund, for which $213 has been collected so
far.
<3 The cross-country championship of
Greater New York was won by Frank Jen-
kins, a colored student of the Jamaica
(L. J.) high school. He came out well ahead
at the end of the three and a quarter mile
course.
<3 Jordan Cavener, a former slave, died
recently, leaving an estate worth $75,000.
lie bequeathed small sums of money to four
white people who had befriended him.
<3! Thomas H. Stewart, a colored man, has
been appointed to the chief messengership
in the United States Patent Office. This
position has always been held by a white
man.
<3 John Caldwell, a Negro, by prompt action
in arousing the inmates, saved thirty families
and eighty guests from probable death by
burning in Perry Hotel, Cleveland, O.
<3 Many of the colored people of Richmond,
Va., are opposing an exposition to celebrate
fifty years of freedom. • They want the
governor to appropriate the $25,000 for a
sanitarium for colored consumptives or for
some other charitable institution.
J. W. Cromwell, principal of the Alex-
ander Crummell School, in Washington,
D.	C., has written a book, “The Negro in
American History,” which will soon be in
circulation. The purpose of this book is to
furnish the teacher with supplementary
material with which to increase the colored
student’s knowledge of his race’s part in the
development of the country.
Andrew Carnegie has donated a library
for the colored people of Evansville, Ind.
<3 The Christmas fund raised by the Times-
Democrat, of New Orleans, for indigent
colored people amounted to $1,020. Through
this fund and the efforts of the Mystic
Order of Hobgoblins, of New Orleans, about
12,000 poor little colored children were
remembered by Santa Claus.
<1 When eight frightened Texas steers broke
forth in the streets of New York some time
ago, officer Holmes, one of Manhattan’s new
colored policemen, seized a big steer by the
nostrils as it was trampling upon another
policeman, shut off its wind and with a jiu-
jitsu twist threw the animal and held him
down until others could rope him.
*J The Pullman porters are endeavoring to
form themselves into a union so as to de-
mand fairer wages and hours from the Pull-
166
THE CRISIS
man Company. At present the hours are
not only very irregular, but often exceedingly
long and the wages paid are small.
<1 Venezuela has erected a monument to
Alexander Petion, the first president of the
republic of Haiti. Petion’s father was a
wealthy colonist and his mother a mulatto.
EDUCATION.
"D ISHOP J. ALBERT JOHNSON reports
that the Fanny J. Coppin Hall, at
Wilberforce Institute, Evaton, Transvaal,
South Africa, was completed in September,
1913, at a 'cost of $8,000. It has been
married during the holidays against the rules
of the school, and when the president re-
fused to hear a committee of boys the
students went on strike. Dr. Meserve has
been president of Shaw for twenty-five
years.
<3 The late Adolphus Busch, of St. Louis,
Mo., bequeathed to the Provident Hospital,
in Chicago, $5,000; to the Bartlett Agricul-
tural and Industrial School, at Dalton, Mo.,
$2,000; to the Old Folks’ Home, at St.
Louis, $1,000; to the St. Louis Colored
Orphan Home, $1,000; to the St. Francis
Orphans’ Home, Normandy, $1,000.
FANNY J. COPPIN HALT*, AT WILBERFORCE INSTITUTE, SOUTH AFRICA.
entirely paid for with money raised by the
South African conferences. The women’s
missionary societies of South Africa are
assisting in raising money with which to
furnish the building.
€\ The Negro students of Shaw University
have sent a request to the board of trustees
asking that a colored president be put in the
place of President Meserve. A student
<J The white Southern Baptist convention at
its St. Louis meeting last May tendered its
financial aid to the colored national Baptist
convention in the establishment of a theo-
logical seminary. It has been decided that
this aid will be a donation of $50,000, and
the seminary will be established in one of
the five cities of which Memphis and Louis-
ville are the most prominent.
ALONG THE
COLOR LINE
167
*3 Senator William P. Jackson has intro-
duced an amendment to the Smith-Lever
agricultural extension bill providing that the
appropriations be distributed without par-
tiality among the white and colored races.
*3 The first annual meeting of the Associa-
tions of Colleges for Negro Youth convened
at Knoxville, Tenn., on November 7. The
three main subjects for discussion at this
meeting were: (1) Entrance requirements
to the college. (2) The requirements for
the college degree. (3) The reception of
students dismissed from other colleges.
Representatives from eight Negro colleges
were present.
THE CHURCH.
HP HE Church League for Work Among
Colored People, in Milwaukee, Wis.,
met and decided to purchase a piece of
ground to erect a parish house for colored
people.
<2 The council of the Congregational Church
will contribute $30,000 annually for church
work among colored people.
ECONOMICS.
HP HE report given out by the auditor of
■** public accounts of Virginia shows that
Negroes in Virginia own property, real and
personal, worth $34,743,656, and that
Negroes in the city of Richmond pay taxes
on property valued at $4,11S,910.
<3 The report of the postal savings bank in
New York City states that of the 30,138 de-
positors on June 30, 1913, 654, or 22 per
cent., were Negroes, with deposits of $39,673.
<3 The colored people of Knoxville, Tenn.,
have purchased ground for a hospital which
will accommodate forty-eight patients.
<3 Two colored lawyers in Little Rock, Ark.,
John Gaines and Scipio Jones, have applied
for a eharter to sell stock for the erection
of a $50,000 hotel for Negroes in Little
Rock.
<3 The Le Roi Mercantile Company, of
Spokane, Wash., has organized with a capital
stock of $10,000 for the purpose of con-
ducting a hotel and general merchandise
department.
<3 Scott Bond and his son, two wealthy
planters of Madison, Ark., have purchased
a model gravel moving and loading machine
costing $10,000. This is said to be only the
second machine of its kind sold in the South.
<3 Samuel Keeton, of Bloomington, Ky., is
well known in his State as a colored cattle
king. Recently he carried about $10,000
worth of cattle to the Mt. Sterling market.
Q Richard T. Ware, a young colored man,
of Washington, D. C., opened up a well-
equipped shoe store six months ago which is
already on a paying basis.
<3 A colored enterprise, the Acme Steam
Laundry, in St. Louis, employs forty colored
men and women.
*3 The Masons of Tennessee are planning to
build a $50,000 temple.
<3 The Equitable Insurance Company was
recently organized by colored men of Mus-
kogee, Okla.
<3 The Windham Brothers, a contracting
firm in Birmingham, Ala., employ 100 men
the year around. B. L. Windham started as
a carpenter twenty-seven years ago, and .for
seven months of the year 1913 the contracts
of the firm were up to $265,000.
<3 On January 1 a colored bank was opened
in Jacksonville, Fla., with Charles H.
Anderson as president.
<3 P. H. Smith, a contractor of Durham,
N. C., has purchased a city block, upon which
he will erect houses for rental.
<3 G. W. Mitchell, of Chicago, has launched
the Mitchell Fountain Ink Eraser Company.
Mr. Mitchell has invented a fluid which,
used in a fountain pen, erases ink. It is
said that a white firm offered Mr. Mitchell
$25,000 for the patent.
<1 The deposits of the Solvent Savings Bank,
in Memphis, Tenn., are estimated to be more
than $140,000.
Q The Institute Building and Land Com-
pany, a corporation composed of colored
men in Institute, W. Va., has purchased a
farm of 210 acres. The farm will be divided
into building lots and put on the market in
the spring.
PERSONAL.
A MONG the recipients of medals from the
McClintic-Marshall Company for work
on the locks of the Panama Canal is the name
of George A. Barnes, a colored man.
<3 James A Wright, a divinity student at
Andover Theological Seminary, has been
elected vice-president of the Harvard-
Andover Divinity Club. -He is the first
colored member of the club.
168
THE CRISIS
Q Peter J. Smith, a colored Democrat, has
been appointed as a deputy corporation in-
spector at Boston. He was an applicant for
assistant register of the treasury.
<1 Rev. E. C. Morris, president of the
national Baptist convention, has been named
as a member of the American committee for
the celebration of the signing of the treaty
of Ghent and the 100 years of peace between
Great Britain and the United States.
<3 Among the guests at the recent wedding
of President Wilson’s daughter was the
minister of Haiti.
<3 Rev. R. R. Wright, editor, and J. I. Lowe,
business manager of the Christian Recorder,
have been reinstated.
<3 W. E. B. Du Bois spoke to the students
of Smith College at the regular vesper
service on December 14.
<3 Julian H. Lewis, fellow in pathology in
the University of Chicago, has been elected
to membership in Sigma Xi, the national
honorary scientific fraternity.
<3 Major John C. Buckner, of Chicago, died
on December 17. While serving in the forty-
first and forty-second general assemblies
Major Buckner did much for the protection
of the colored miners and their families who
were being threatened by mobs. He also
organized the Ninth Battalion of the National
Guard, which was the beginning of the
present Eighth Regiment of Illinois.
<3 Miss Carolyn M. Wood has been elected
superintendent of the orphanage at River-
dale-on-the-Hudson, to succeed Frank Barber
who resigned lately.
<3 L. A. Jackson, of Englewood, N. J., a
colored student of Harvard University, has
been chosen as orator of the class.
<3 Thomas Downing, who was for fifty years
a clerk in the foreign department of the
Boston postoffice, is dead.
MEETINGS.
THE National Benefit Association of the
District of Columbia celebrated its
fifteenth anniversary in November. ' The
assets of the association are estimated at
$234,500.
<J The National League on Urban Condi-
tions Among Negroes held its annual meeting
in New York City on December 3. Prof.
Kelly Miller, of Howard University, and
Prof. George E. Haynes, of Fisk, were
among the speakers.
<1 The Masonic Grand Lodge for the juris-
diction of Pennsylvania held its annual ses-
sion in Philadelphia December 8. The North
Carolina Masons met in Newbern at about
the same time.
<3 The Tuskegee’s annual Negro conference
will convene February 22.
<3 The Missouri State Teachers’ Association
met in Jefferson City in December.
<3 The Sunflower State Agricultural Asso-
ciation held the annual meeting at the
Topeka (Kan.) Industrial and Educational
Institute in December.
<3 The third annual meeting of the Grand
Chapter of Kappa Alpha Nu, a national
Greek-letter fraternity of Negro college men,
was held in Indianapolis, Ind., December
29-30.
<11 The seventeenth annual session of the
Negro American Academy met in Washing-
ton, D. C., on December 30.
<3 The Georgia conference of the A. M. E.
Church held its fortieth annual session at
Hawkinsville, Ga., November 25-30.
<3 Negro State farmers’ week will be held at
the A. and M. College in Greensboro, N. C.,
February 9 to 14.
<3 The third annual conference of em-
ployed and volunteer workers in colored
Young Women’s Christian Associations in
cities will be held in Philadelphia, Pa.,
under the direction of the national board,
from January 28 to February 2.
<3 The Teachers’ Association of Northern
West Virginia held its annual session at
Morgantown on November 27 and 28.
<3 The fifth annual convention of the Inter-
collegiate Socialist Society, attended by men
and women from all over the country, was
held in New York on December 29, 30 and
31. Dr. W. E. B. Du Bois was one of the
speakers on “Socialism and Suffrage.”
<3 At the fifty-first anniversary of the
emancipation proclamation, at Stamford,
Conn., Postmaster Bohle, of that place, and
Mr. A. G. Dill, of New York, were the
speakers.
<3 The sixteenth session of the Arkansas
Teachers’ Association was held in Little
Rock December 29-30.	'
<3 The National Association for the Advance-
ment of Colored People held the annual
meeting in New York on January 5. The
general subject was segregation.
i
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
169
FOREIGN.
^ 11 HE Hon. Edward Rawle Drayton, a
A Barbadian, has been appointed to
administer the government of the Windward
Islands during the governor’s absence.
*3 Five of the East Indian strikers in South
Africa are reported killed by policemen.
<3 President Michael Oreste, of the Republic
of Haiti, has ordered all Jamaicans to leave
Haiti.
*3 At the distribution of prizes at Sorbonne,
France, among colleges belonging to the
university, two of the winners were Haitians.
One, a mulatto, won the prize for Latin
composition and the other, a black man,
stood highest in Greek composition.
<3 A motion protesting against the com-
pulsory accommodation of natives in the
Transkeian Territories, South Africa, has
been adopted. Originally hotelkeepers were
prosecuted if they failed to accommodate
natives.
<3 A member of the Port Elizabeth (Africa)
town council has succeeded in having all
public seats in the municipality reserved for
Europeans. The colored people are arrang-
ing a mass meeting to protest against this
discrimination.
<1 The Kimberley branch of the African
Political Organization appealed to the school
board to pass a compulsory school law for
the natives. The school board expressed
sympathy with the request, but refused to
provide accommodations for the native and
colored children.
<3 The colonization movement in Liberia has
been resumed after a lull of twenty years.
A.	C. Faulkner, a colored man, of Baltimore,
who sailed for Liberia on December 20 with
his wife and child, is the first of the new
colonists.
THE COURTS.
TT7ILLIAM YOUNG, a Negro, accused
of assaulting a white girl in Way-
cross, Ga., has been acquitted. This is the
first time that a Negro accused of rape in
Georgia has been acquitted.
Antonio Navarro, of San Domingo, is
suing the Sisters of Ladycliff Academy, at
Highland Falls, N. Y., for $5,000. He claims
that his daughter was received in the school
under a four years’ contract and later
rejected because the other students “drew the
color line.,,	’ •
<3 The white Knights of Pythias in Ten-
nessee have dropped the case in the United
States Supreme Court against the colored
Pythians.
q Charles Kie, a Pueblo Indian, sued for
$5,000 damages for being restrained from
voting and $5,000 for being committed to
jail. The case was heard in the United
States District Court at Sante Fe, N. M.,
and damages were not granted to the Indian.
Kie may tfike the case to a higher court.
•3 Governor Mann, of Virginia, has issued
a full pardon for George Nelson, a colored
man sentenced to one year in the peniten-
tiary for forging orders on a tobacco ware-
house. The man is pardoned because he is
innocent and was convicted on incomplete
evidence.
<3 Police Judge Osborn, of Columbus, O.,
sentenced three white men to six months in
the workhouse and fines of $200 and costs
each for attacking a colored police officer,
Henry Lane. The judge refused to comply
with the jury’s request for leniency in the
case.
THE GHETTO.
A SHORT time ago, when the colored
employees of the Pickering Lumber
Company in Logansport, La., reported for
work, they found placards posted on the
premises of the company. These placards,
which the white employees are suspected of
putting up, read: “Niggers, don’t let the
sun go down on you here.” It seems, how-
ever, that the placards were simply a cow-
ardly bluff.
Q The Boston Symphony Orchestra gives
five concerts in Washington/D. C., each
winter, and heretofore colored people have
been able to procure some kind of seats.
This year it is reported that they are1 barred
from the concerts entirely.
*3 Assistant Postmaster Mischeaux, of Flor-
ence, S. C., has been discharged. The only
reason for this action seems to be the fact
that Mr. Mischeaux is a Negro. The post-
master says that he is determined to have
all colored clerks, even those protected by
civil service, discharged, so that white girls
can be employed in the office.
*3 A pamphlet recently issued by the school
department of Philadelphia shows that most
of the white graduates of the grammar
schools work in factories or offices or enter
170
THE CRISIS
trades. On the other hand, by far the larg-
est per cent, of colored graduates are com-
pelled to enter domestic service because
other occupations are not open to them.
The segregation ordinance in Augusta,
with many prominent colored citizens and
a white paper openly opposing it, was de-
feated in the city council.
<3 At the recent session of the Woman’s
Home Missionary Society of the Methodist
Church in Washington, D. C., Mrs. Hilda
M. Nasmyth, of Philander Smith College,
succeeded in getting 162 signatures to a
resolution against the Florida school law.
Joseph Harrold and Barnett Jimson, two
colored men of Newport News, Va., refused
to give up their seats in a trolley car to
white people. They were arrested and later
acquitted. They will bring suit against the
railway company for “false arrest and
imprisonment.”
<J Protest was made to the council of East
Orange against discrimination of colored
people at the Lyceum Theatre in that place.
The mayor stated that he would write the
manager of the theatre a strong letter
against this policy.
Mrs. Joseph T. Bowen, in her report to
the Juvenile Protective Association in Chi-
cago, called attention to the fact that col-
ored children are not even allowed to bathe
in the waters of Lake Michigan.
<1 George H. Jackson, who was appointed
consul at Cognac, France, by President
Taft, has been dismissed. Kenneth F. Pat-
ton, a white man, succeeds him. This posi-
tion is perhaps the best in the consular
service ever held by a colored man and was
supposed to be protected by the civil service.
<1 Madisonville, Ky., has passed a segrega-
tion ordinance.
The North Carolina Teachers’ Association
has appointed a commission upon equal pas-
senger accommodations on the railroad
lines of that State. This commission will
bring definite cases of improper service
before the State commission and, if neces-
sary, the interstate commission.
€J Joseph Ricks, a colored man, who was
elected borough auditor on the Republican
ticket in Coatesville, Pa., was arrested for
disorderly conduct. The general opinion
seems to be that the arrest of Auditor Ricks
was simply a case of prejudice:
•I Dr. II. E. Young, of Baltimore, purchased
a house on Myrtle Street at an auction sale.
No one is occupying the house, but when
it was learned that it had been purchased by
a colored man a mob broke every window
pane in the house. Colored people will move
in and a test case will be made of it by the
National Association for the Advancement
of Colored People.
CRIME.
TP^AVID LEE, a Negro, .45 years old, was
lynched in Jefferson, Tex., about mid-
night of January 2. A dozen masked men
took him from the jail in which he was
imprisoned for shooting a constable. The
constable has recovered, as the victim of the
mob inflicted only flesh wounds.
<1 Cleve Culbertson, a white man, was
lynched in Williston, N. D. lie was charged
with the murder of three members of the
Dillon family of Williston.
At St. Charles, Mo., a policeman and one
Negro were killed as the result of a race
riot. It is claimed that the riot was caused
by the attempt of two Negroes to escape
arrest.
The deputy sheriff and two Negroes are
dead as the result of a race riot in Bass-
field, Miss. No definite cause of the riot
is given.
<J Mary E. Mitchell, a colored woman, ac-
cused of killing a white boy under provoca-
tion, near Madison, N. C., was carried to
the prison at Stoneville to prevent a
lynching.
<3 Four white men in Greely, la., have been
arrested, charged with murder, for partici-
pating in the recent lynching of a colored
man in that place.
<1 John S. Gaines, a colored policeman of
Austin, Tex., was fatally shot in the back
while reporting over the telephone to the
station. The murderer was a white deputy,
George Booth. So far no reason for the
crime has been given, but it is thought that
Gaines had gained the enmity of several
members of the force because of his fight
against houses of prostitution which they
had been paid to keep quiet about.
<1 W. J. Fuller, a white lawyer of Mont-
gomery, Ala., rushed into the courtroom last
May and killed a colored man being held for
trial. He has been acquitted on the plea of
insanity.
AN INTERVIEW
WITH THE
PRESIDENT.
On Thursday, November 6,
five colored men and one
colored woman, led by Mr.
W. M. Trotter, bad an in-
terview with the President and presented a
petition against segregation with 20,000 sig-
natures. No record of this event has ap-
peared in The Crisis and the Boston
Guardian is disturbed over the omission.
The explanation is simple. The monthly
edition of The Crisis is now so large that
it has to go to press early. All matter for
the December Crisis, for instance, was in
the hands of the printer November 3. This
meant that this interview could not be men-
tioned for something like six weeks. At that
time it could scarcely be called news. There
was not the slightest intention on the part
of The Crisis to belittle or ignore this im-
portant event, but monthly newspapers have
very distinct limitations.
ANOTHER
CRINGING
COWARD.
A colored man who rejoices in
the name of Horace Donia Coler-
ance was elected to the city coun-
cil of Winchester, Ky., recently.
His fellow white members objected to him;
therefore, he resigned and gives this lucid
and brave explanation of his cou;rse:
“Members of the new council got up a
petition declaring that they would not sit in
the council with a Negro, signed when a
friend of mine saw it by six councilmen, and
I afterward heard that the seventh man
signed it. Now as far as I was concerned
all of them asking for my resignation could
not affect my standing as a councilman.
They could themselves resign, but the
thought came to me: Will it be the best thing
for my people in my ward for me to sit
two years in humiliation and being snubbed
and sat upon?
“They would do no improvements in the
Fourth Ward, a vote from me or a sugges-
tion would fall on deaf ears. Is*it not selfish-
ness that I sit two years (if I am not way-
laid and shot down) and my people suffer-
ing? I laid the matter before my wife and
boy (two of the best friends I have on
earth). My wife readily desired me to get
out of it all; my son thought best to stay.
I talked with Dr. J. H. Holmes and he
finally thought that I could do no good. Dr.
M. S. Brown, a friend of mine for many
years and a member of the present council,
came first to my store, and we had a long
talk over the matter and he took the matter
under advisement, returning to my residence
Friday morning, and we agreed that for
peace and harmony he advised me to
resign.”
So the colored gentleman resigned and
named a white Democrat in his place, whom
he describes as the “Honorable James N.
Hiles.” No wonder our race is still in
slavery.
It is always pleasant to have our
politics. southern white friends fall out
because then we get little glimpses of the
truth. In South Carolina the Columbia
State does not like Mr. Blease and Mr. Till-
man, and has been saying things. The New
York Evening Post says editorially:
“In explaining South Carolina’s indiffer-
ence to woman suffrage, the Columbia State
makes a confession regarding the misuse of
manhood suffrage in that commonwealth
which would justify any unfranchised por-
tion of the population in agitating for the
ballot. The State has about 330,000 men of
voting age. But ‘the central and principal
policy of our politics is the exclusion of
165,000	of these possible voters from the
polls because they are Negroes.’ Worse re-
mains behind, however, in the use that the
white voters themselves make of the fran-
172
THE CRISIS
chise. 'Everybody knows/ the State de-
clares, 'that in recent years we have failed
to conduct a white man’s primary, free from
fraud and corruption. •	•	• We lack
either the intelligence or the courage to pro-
secute bribe takers and bribe givers. Our
corrupt-practice laws are honored in the
breach. We have so far neglected to
arrange a party enrollment that is even a
reasonable check on illegal voting and re-
peating.’ The discouraging element in the
situation is that the primaries were once
conducted honestly; their debauching is a
recent development. If there be 'treason’
in the State’s frankness, it is the kind of
treason that it behooves honest voters to
make the most of.”
In this same line there is a funny extract
from the Florence (S. C.) Times. Florence,
by the way, has a majority of colored peo-
ple in its population.
"The people of Florence have for a num-
ber of years been trying to get the post-
office here in the control of white men, and
it is the very irony of fate that it is the
unthinking white people, men of business
standing whose word is worth something in
the community, that has blocked the efforts
of the people in this direction. The softness
of the man who cannot refuse to sign any
paper that is presented to him is the whole
story of cause and effect. It kept a Negro
postmaster in Florence long after even the
cities of the North had cast him over, and
even the Republican party had repudiated
him. It now happens that the assistant post-
master is the one to be changed, and the
petition of a number of the business men
of the city 'to retain him in some position
in the service’ is apt to break up the whole
thing. We know, and the men who signed
the petition know, that Florence wants a
change in that postoffice and wants it bad,
but they could not resist the request to sign
a petition to keep the assistant postmaster
there, and excused it on the ground that
they would not ask for him to keep the re-
sponsible position that he has, but merely
asked that he be retained in the service. That
is weakness dodging weakness, and men who
act so foolishly do not deserve to have any-
thing that they want, for they neither have
backbone nor judgment to appreciate what
they get. They may excuse themselves all
they want, for half if not nine-tenths of the
people believe that an excuse is like charity,
covering everything in sight. The world
does not want excuses and the damage being
done to the wishes of the community all the
excuses in the world do not undo. There is
but one thing to do now and that is to get
your name off the petition that we under-
stand blocks the way of the postmaster in
trying to get a force of competent white
people in the office.”
We note with interest that some Northern
white papers are beginning again to insist
upon the farce of this sort of Democratic
government. The Boston Daily Advertiser,
in a leading editorial, says:
"In the name of ten millions of Ameri-
cans, whose rights are now refused them,
and who often suffer from the grossest in-
justice on that account, we appeal to Wood-
row Wilson, as President of the United
States. President Wilson has made it plain
that he regards with concern the welfare of
a few thousands of Americans in Mexico,
who are the victims of unconstitutional
government in Mexico. Will he not also
lend a pitying ear to the cry for help which
comes from some ten millions of Americans
who suffer from admittedly unconstitutional
government in the United States?
"Although the unconstitutional methods
of depriving the Negroes of the South of
their right to vote has been an open and
neglected sore in American politics for many
years, we trust to President Wilson’s own
assurances as to his beliefs and policies in
assuming that he at last will overthrow this
evil and heal up this pestilential evil.
"All Americans, unquestionably, felt a
fine glow and fervor when they read
the recent message of President Wilson to
Congress, in connection with the refusal of
the American government to recognize the
illegal and unconstitutional government of
the dictator Huerta, in Mexico. •	•	•
"Is the government of the United States
to-day 'constitutional’? Indeed it is not. It
is maintained only in defiance of the Consti-
tution. The vote in the Electoral College
was cast for President Wilson (so far as
regards the electoral strength from the
Southern States) in flat, open, flagrant, im-
pudent defiance of the Constitution. Every
vote cast in the House of Representatives
during a quorum, no matter for or against
what measure, is admittedly and flagrantly
cast in defiance of the explicit commands
of the Constitution of the United States.”
OPINION
173
The Rev. Charles F. Aked
publishes a strong word for
the Negro in the San Franciscco Examiner:
He says among others things:
“The crime against the Negro continues.
North, as well as South, East equally with
the West, hangs, shoots and occasionally
roasts its Negroes by order of Judge Lynch.
State after State disfranchises its Negroes;
the ‘Jim Crow* car is still running; the Wil-
son administration discriminates against the
Negro clerk or employee at Washington—
and nobody seems to mind.
“Florida shows the lengths to which the
crime against the Negro may carry a sov-
ereign State. Last June a law was enacted
making it a penal offense for a white person
to teach Negroes in Negro schools. Florida
has no mixed schools. The brutal animus
of the legislation is clear.
“Washington answers back to Florida.
In the government departments discrimina-
tion and segregation, wherever possible, are
being practised. President Woodrow
Wilson’s administration is a Southern ad-
ministration, with Southern prejudices and
Southern injustice to the Negro. His ‘New
Freedom,’ which we were so innocent as to
take for the sincere expression of a great
man’s convictions, turns out to be not inr
consistent with the old bondage to ignoble
fear.”
The Boston Record says:
“Negroes segregated and crowded out in
the Federal departments. Negroes excluded
from the White House welfare-work meet-
ing. Negroes barred from subscription to
Boston Symphony Orchestra concerts at
Washington. Just what is the idea? Here
is involved no question of ‘social equality,’
but of ordinary human justice to men and
women seeking first to work honorably and
efficiently; second, to do their share in help-
ing others to live better lives; third, to enjoy
those uplifting and inspiring influences
which are the common rights of mankind.
It is not an American program unfolding
at the Capital.”
“Colored people,” says Oswald Garrison
Villard, in the, North American Review,
“rightly declare — as must every fair-
minded man free from prejudice—that this
spells caste. They believe that it is in-
tended to drive them out of the public serv-
ice by rendering it intolerable for Negroes
with self-respect; they assert that one of the
Assistant Secretaries of the Treasury has
already held up the promotion of two colored
clerks because of their color. Segregation
is, beyond doubt, an entering wedge, and
here is the chief significance of it all. Let
a precedent be established, and who shall say
what tbe outcome will be, to what lengths
despotic officials will take their way by
means of discrimination, intimidation, by
above-board or underhand methods? Who
shall prophesy to what extent this caste idea
may not be developed in the decades to
come? If Negroes can thus be set apart
contrary to the spirit of the civil-service law
and of the Constitution itself, why not others
—Jews, for instance? This phase of it
ought to appeal to every supporter of the
Woodrow Wilson administration. Every
administration that comes into power in
Washington, whether it be good or bad, must
expect to encounter an enormous amount of
criticism. The more virile the government
the more determined it is to put through re-
forms on behalf of the whole people and to
strike at intrenched privilege, the more cer-
tain it is to be criticised and to have its
motives questioned and assailed. This has
been particularly true of the Wilson
administration.
“How shortsighted, as well as unjust, it
was, then, for it to have raised this issue of
segregation at this time, or for that matter
at any time! Did it not have troubles
enough with Mexico, with the Philippines,
with the currency problem—with a hundred-
odd things? At the outset of his career as
President Mr. Wilson has, from a politi-
cian’s point of view, most wrongly and
needlessly antagonized one-ninth of the
population of this country and its white
sympathizers. He has alienated thousands
of colored voters in pivotal States, when it
would have been so easy to let the situation
rest precisely as it was under Mr. Taft.
Indeed, it may come to pass that Mr. Wilson
will go down to history as the man who set
in motion terrible forces for evil without
adequate conception or prevision of the dan-
gers he was inviting.”
There is, however, a rather indefinite re-
port that segregation in Washington depart-
ments has either been lessened or at any
rate is not growing. -The Springfield
Republican declares:
“The Washington correspondent of the
Boston Advertiser, who has been paying
174
THE CRISIS
close attention to the charges of discrimina-
tion between the white and colored employees
in the departments at Washington, now re-
ports that the causes for complaint are being
removed. The nub of his summing up
follows:
‘Negro segregation in the departments of
the Federal government has not only been
effectually checked and therefore stopped,
but it is rapidly being disintegrated—
wiped off the slate, in other words. Some-
body has seen a big light, and as the start
of Negro segregation was very quiet, so its
demise is 'being conducted in a similarly
noiseless way. * * * Segregation has largely
been a movement in the under strata of the
departments. The little fellows have tried
to put into force an idea that they had. It
spread like smallpox contagion when it was
found that the heads were not saying any-
thing in opposition. But the opposition did
come though from without, and has made
itself felt by impressing the authorities high
up who were so incredulous/
“In other words, when this matter was
called to the attention of President Wilson
he proceeded to deal with it without sum-
moning a brass band and is getting the
results desired.”
On the other hand, the Afro-American
hedger, one of the best of colored papers,
has this striking comment:
“If we are to be a nation within a
nation, then the sooner we understand it
and get about it the sooner we will be in a
position to take a substantial interest in all
the things that are going "on around us.
It is plain that if we want a share in a com-
munity Christmas tree we must have a
community Christmas tree all of our own.
We must have our own stores and not de-
pend on the stores of other people. In
fact we must have a little world of our own
revolving inside of the other and larger
world. The Negro must learn to provide
for all his own needs, be what they may.
The Negro must provide for everything,
from the birth of child to the death of the
great-grandfather. Boots, shoes, clothing,
houses, lands, food, hospitals, schools,
churches, orphan asylums, old folks’ homes
and what not. He must learn to invest his
savings in bonds and mortgages of public
utilities; he must learn that he must be
represented along money lines in steam-
boats, street cars,' railroads and everything
else which takes public money to run. Thus
he will be able in the course of time to
have some say as to where he shall sit as
well as the other fellow, for he will be
part owner.
“These are the things which are to be the
outcome of the present segregation in all
public affairs. When we shall have demon-
strated our ability to be independent, then
and not until then will we become an
integral part of the community like all
other races and nationalities. And we
better begin now.”
In New York City Negroes
REAL ESTATE.	n	in
were for years bottled up in
the slums and tenderloin. About ten years
ago a shrewd colored real-estate dealer,
Philip A. Payton, found a way out by
convincing white real-estate dealers that
colored tenants pay. The result was a
quick and enormous transplantation of the
Negro population to one of the healthiest
parts of New York—in Harlem. Since
then repeated attempts have been made to
drive out this colored population. A cor-
respondent in the New York World says
of the real-estate situation:
“Another important factor is the Negro
problem. It cannot be denied that the
Negro is entitled to pitch his tent wherever
he sees fit. Experience, however, has shown
that a colored invasion is followed by
calamitous depreciation. As yet we are
not ripe for assimilation, and this disturb-
ance has played havoc with West Harlem
to an almost incalculable extent. The average
Negro is, however, law abiding and proves
a good-paying tenant. Prejudice on account
of color should be overcome, with a resultant
benefit to both owner and investor.”
Meantime, however, Shaw & Company,
white real-estate agents at 1 West 125th
Street, are sending out circulars proposing
an incorporated real-estate company to get
rid of colored people. The statement says:
“In the last few years the colored popula-
tion in the upper section of Harlem has
spread to such an extent that its effect on
the real-estate values in the entire Harlem
section has been very marked, causing
shrinkage in values running into very large
figures.
“The question will arise in considering
this proposition as to the section into which
the colored population could be transferred.
Iff
OPINION
175
This is a matter for open discussion, there
being several sections to which they could
be removed that would afford adequate
housing facilities equal if not better than
those which they now enjoy, as well as the
transit facilities which must be considered.
“It is the opinion of the people interested
in the section through holding mortgages
that the scheme is a good one, and they have
expressed their willingness to give the move
their co-operation. There is not a bank or
other institution holding mortgages in the
section that could not be counted upon for
support.
“At the present time it is almost an
impossibility to obtain a mortgage loan in
the section.
“With the mortgage market in such con-
dition that the owners could not procure
mortgages on colored property in the sec-
tion, it would be absolutely impossible for
any one to hold out against this movement.
It would rather be to everyone’s advantage
to join the movement and thereby obtain
the assistance of the corporation.”
Will the colored people and their friends
permit the success of this monstrous attempt
to push back the colored population into
the slums?
B
A letter from Oklahoma to the
R bbery. profeSsional World, a colored
paper of Columbia, Mo., says:
“Tn no State in the Union have Negroes
been robbed, actually robbed with impunity
and openly, as in this State, and to-day
white men are worth millions who have built
up their fortunes by thievery. Practically all
the rich oil fields in this State were originally
the property of Negroes. When the restric-
tions preventing the sale of freedmen’s lands
were removed by Congress in 1908, it was the
signal for wholesale robbery of these freed-
men’s lands, and the white guardians of
Negro minors sold their guardian wards’ for
a mere pittance and in turn shared in the for-
tunes made from oil found on the lands sold.
Sarah Rector, the little Negro girl just out
from Muskogee, whose income from her
oil lands amounts to more than $1,000 a
day, lives in a little log shack and wears
the cheapest kind of clothes, and is given
but a meagre education by her white guar-
dian, who doles out for her support but a
few dollars each month. To-day her income,
with but perhaps a third of her land de-
veloped, amounts to $1,030 per day from
oil products alone. This is increased by
the money being loaned out at the legal
rate of interest, making her income nearly
$400,000 per annum. The white guardian
receives 2 per cent, fee for handling her
property, and the little Negro girl, although
rich as Croesus, lives in a log shanty, has
but tbe commonest fare and illy made
clothes. If she were a white child her
guardian would see that she lived in a man-
ner befitting her income, and was receiving
the best education. Her riches only serve
to enrich whites—only serve to enable whites
to live in luxury while she lives in poverty,
or next door to poverty.
“Only this week a decision was handed
down in the courts of this State in the case
of Adam Doyle, an old Negro 90 years of
age, who is insane and whose lands, worth
many millions for the oil on them, were dis-
posed of, which practically and clearly
robbed him. His present guardian brought
suit to recover his valuable lands on the
ground that he was insane, which he is, and
not competent to make a deed or contract.
Rich white oil companies are now in pos-
session of his lands, worth many millions,
having secured them from him for a mere
song, because he was too unbalanced to
know what he was doing when he signed
them away. The decision given in the case
was that ‘he is a man of unsound mind, but
capable of some understanding.’ This queer
decision legalizes the robbery of this old
Negro, and gives to the soulless white indi-
viduals and corporations which secured his
lands under deeds and contracts which he
as an insane man signed.
“Oklahoma has many bright Negro men
and women, some brilliant and strong at-
torneys, but they cannot become guardians
of the Negro minors who possess rich oil,
coal and farming lands, because no bond
they could get would be accepted by the
courts, and because it is so arranged that
they cannot secure proper bond.”
m
Florida’s new law is still
EDUCATION. , .	. ,	,	,,
being commented on by the
papers. The Milwaukee Free Press says:
“It is just becoming generally known
that the Florida legislature, at its recent
session, clandestinely enacted a law whose
object is to drive the white teachers out of
176
THE CRISIS
(he colored mission schools and thus to
cripple their efficiency. The principal sec-
tion of the law reads:
“ ‘From and after the passage of this act
it shall be unlawful in this State for white
teachers to teach Negroes in Negro schools,
and for Negro teachers to teach in white
schools.7
“The punishment for violation is a fine
not to exceed $500, or imprisonment of not
more than six months.
“Of course the second prohibition is
wholly supererogatory and intended merely
to give the law a show of consistency; for
there are no Negro teachers in the white
schools.
“Compared with this law as an example
of blind and fiendish race hatred, the seg-
regation ordinance of Baltimore is mild
indeed. That ordinance, at least, does not
push the vicious segregation theory to a
point where it raises a barrier to the Negro’s
education, the one hope of solution for the
race problem.
“Indeed, the Florida statute is the best
evidence that there still exists a large body
of Southern men who prefer to keep the
black race in ignorance and thus measurably
in its old-time bondage.”
The Boston Advertiser declares that:
“The feeling that the / South is in • the
saddle seems to have spread rapidly through
the Southern States. One of the indications
of this is the recent action of the State of
Florida in making a law by which it has.
been declared illegal for white teachers to
teach Negroes in Negro schools and for
Negro teachers to teach in white schools.
The latter part of this law is probably quite
unnecessary, even from a Southern point of
view, and the first part is a provision which
is likely to work a great deal of harm in the
South. Even in the days before the war it
was the custom for white ladies to teach
Negro children. On many an estate in the
South the mistress of the great house and
her daughters had school for the colored
children. The situation during slavery was
therefore, in a certain respect, better than
the situation which the State of Florida now
proposes to create. A great many colored
people have become qualified as teachers in
the last few years, but to cut off the colored
people from any instruction from the whites
is simply terrible.”
Mr. Charles Carroll Sims thus argues
against the compulsory education law pro-
posed in South Carolina, in the Charleston
News-Courier :
“If the compulsory education law should
prevail, then, under present educational
conditions the Negroes would come under the
same provisions as the whites, with the
result of exceedingly high education, but an
aggravation of the labor problem and an
end of agricultural pursuits. If it is true
that the Negro is being educated in larger
numbers than the whites under the present
law, it is hard to conceive how the com-
pulsory education would relieve the situa-
tion. If it be admitted that both races would
be equally educated, a condition would arise
in South Carolina of two races, absolutely
different in kind, and utterly incapable of
assimilation, more or less equally educated,
struggling for supremacy. It would aggra-
vate the servant problem, and increase it in
all of its perplexities and worry, and cause
a continual warfare between the races which
God intended,- and Jefferson announced,
could only live together as master and
servant.”
m
For the benefit of
those people who are
deceived by the cries
of Southern demagogues we subjoin a few
facts. The first is sent us in a letter:
THE DEMAND
FOR MISCEGENATION.
“On Tuesday morning, December 9, Mr.
James H. Bell, a prosperous colored farmer,
of Cedars, Miss., a little town about twenty
miles from Vicksburg, was found shot and
died shortly afterward. Mr. Bell owned a
plantation of 4,200 acres of improved land,
with necessary stock and fixtures. This prop-
erty had been given him by his white father,
who still lives in the neighborhood. It is the
current belief that poor white relatives of
Mr. Bell were implicated in the killing, this
impression being heightened by the fact that
Mr. Bell’s younger brother was murdered
only a few days before Mr. Bell himself.
The plan seems to be to exterminate the
family. The county authorities have, of
course, found no trace of the murderers of
their men.”
Another is from the Muskogee Phoenix,
a white Oklahoma paper:
“Late last night two prominent Muskogee
business men were found by the police in
the home of Maude Tate and Essa Thorne,
OPINION
177
two Negro women. The house is ou what is
known as Frisco Alley, south and parallel to
Elgin Avenue, between South 2d and 3d
Streets. The women were arrested and will
be tried in police court this morning. at
9 o’clock. The men pleaded to escape arrest
and to prevent their names becoming pub-
lic, and were released by the police, as they
were men who have good reputations and
gave promises to attend to their own affairs
and to keep to the straight and narrow path
in the future. The women, however, are
well known to the police, who have had past
dealings with them.”
Another colored paper says:
“Down in Georgia, not many days ago, a
colored man was sentenced to hang, and
actually given life imprisonment because
he was caught with a white woman whose
reputation was no better than those of
Maud Tate and Essie Thorne. The poor
black was literally railroaded to the peniten-
tiary ‘as an example to learn Niggers to
stay in their place.’
“It is such unequal administration of
justice as exhibited in these cases that makes
for bad Negroes and causes race strife,
murders and lynchings. The affair of Maude
Tate and Essie Thorne is not an isolated
occurrence, but is one of countless instances
of the same kind happening nightly in this
city.
“Last week a leading jeweler at Oklahoma
City was sued for divorce by his wife, who
named a colored woman as co-respondent.”
harvard’s
CLASS ORATOR.
The election of a colored
man as orator of his class
at Harvard for the third
time within a generation has brought some
comment. The Florida Times-Union does
this quick step among the arguments:
“Perhaps we have now reached the secoud
stage in the development of public opinion
as to racial distinctions—once it was taken
for granted that a Negro had no political or
social fitness because of his color, and now
we may be ready in some sections to admit
that he must have merit because of his color.
Surely we have taken the second step if we
may believe the following editorial assump-
tion from the New York World:
“ ‘Class honors at Harvard are reputed
to go by favor, but the selection of a Negro
for the coveted place of classday orator by
the vote of his classmates indicates that
merit also counts, and that, too, without
discrimination of race. This is the second
time within recent memory that Harvard
has ignored the color line in the award of
classday prizes. Besides A. L. Jackson, of
Englewood, on whom the present distinction
is conferred, Roscoe Conkling Bruce, a
Negro student from Mississipi, was chosen
orator by his class eleven years ago.’
“Why should our contemporary assume
that merit has won because a Negro has
been chosen 7 Why should it be assumed
that merit had been disregarded if a white
candidate had been elected? Perhaps it will
be urged that nothing but real merit could
have overcome the prejudice against the
Negro—in that case we have the admission
of a prejudice in the attempt to deny it.
“But is it matter of congratulation that
a Negro whose great-grandfather was a
savage has developed greater merit than
any competitor among some hundreds of
several races who might be credited with
longer training if heredity count for any-
thing? Would it be a matter of congratu-
lation if Negroes could show candidates
better fitted to be presidents or judges than
any competitors of the white races? Would
not the fact argue that the white races of this
country had degenerated as much as that
the Negro had improved?
“But if we assume that some Negroes have
eclipsed white rivals in worthy fields, can
we longer hold that slavery was a crime?
Is there a native Negro in his own land
who has risen so high? Is there a Negro
in any other country who has done so well?
Then is it not fair to believe with some
leaders of the race that slavery in the
Southern States was the best school for the
Negro? Might not New England now urge
that the slave trade be resumed for the
benefit of the Negro race as she once in-
sisted on its preservation as her most profit-
able line of business?”
English ^wo we^~^nown London weeklies
opinion have note<* our problems. F. J.
Gould, who has been traveling in
the States, writes in the Ethical World:
“Baltimore is a ‘Southern’ city in tempera-
ment, and bears spiritual marks of the old
slavery period—that is to say, it more or
less willingly maintains social barriers ber
tween the white and Ihe African.
178
THE CRISIS
“The African. • • • But I shall never for-
get the uneasiness of my sensations when,
having been set down in the official program
to meet an assembly of ‘colored’ teachers, I
observed that some of them were all but
white like myself. Personally I was glad to
be among these fellow teachers; but what op-
pressed me was the thought that there really
was no absolute line of demarcation at all.
The races were visibly mingled, and yet the
barriers were still stern and difficult. Negro
and European children attend different
schools, the teachers are trained in separate
colleges ■ and the ‘colored’ schools are of
inferior equipment. Not loudly, but often
with determination, the European elements
express a wish that Negro education may be
kept at a low level in order that European
households may be supplied with willing, if
illiterate, cooks and grooms.
“This is not really a desperate situation.
One has to remember that the Africans were
slaves till 1863 or 1865. Fifty or sixty years
have not elapsed in vain. The very fact that
my own tour has included some colored
schools is a small but notable indication of
progress. Indeed, for the Negro and
mulattp people, and for the whites who are
tinged by the fateful hue, the one hope is
the civic school. The stars in their courses
cannot resist the teacher, and ideas will
finally overthrow old walls of prejudice and
distrust. Reluctantly, perhaps, but inevit-
ably, Baltimore must solve the riddle of the
races, as must the whole vast South of the
United States. It is not for me here to dis-
cuss so complex a subject as the economic
aspects and the political aspects of this
question. I have looked into the eyes of
young colored folks, told them my stories,
heard their spontaneous replies to my ques-
tions, and felt the pathos of their restric-
tions. One may estimate that the colored
child is two years behind the march of the
white child in intellectual achievement. We
need not ask how much of the distinction is
due to heredity until (how remote the day!)
all social and educational limitations are
removed.
“But they will be removed.
“F. J. Gould.
“Louisville, Ky., U. S. A., November 18,
1913.”
a
Sidney and Beatrice Webb’s New States-
man says in a book review:
“No actual comparison of colored prog-
ress with white progress during the last
fifty years is possible, for the starting point
and the original momentum are so obviously
disparate. The advance of the Negro must
therefore be judged not comparatively, but
positively; and, so judged, it calls for con-
gratulation. Wherever he has been treated
without prejudice and with a genuine desire
to make the most of his capacities, he has
responded; wherever he has failed in his
duties as a citizen it is largely because he
has been given to understand, by trickery
or by bullying, that his co-operation is not
wanted and that his very existence is an
impertinence. The facts obligingly yield
the exact moral that democratic theory re-
quires: that if you treat a fellow creature
simply as a fellow creature, spiritually and
essentially the equal of everybody else, you
get the best out of him—and he out of you;
whereas if you treat him as an inferior, it
degrades both him and yourself, This is
the answer to lynching in America as it is
to sweating in Dublin.
“Even if race distinctions of capacity are
permanent, that is no argument against
equality; equality does not mean that in
every business of a thousand men there
shall be a fixed number of Negroes accord-
ing to their proportion of the whole popula-
tion, but simply that if any Negroes are
fitted to be there, they shall not be excluded
on the ground that they are Negroes. There
is a ludicrousness in this insistence on a
point so familiar to every thinking being;
but the misunderstanding at which it is
aimed crops up every day, in the exclusion
of women from certain professions as well
as in the doctrine of race separation. The
race problem, however, all artificial mis-
understandings swept aside, remains a prob-
lem. There is difference of opinion between
high authorities, and, in the result, a pro-
found ignorance. We do not know how
race tells, what characteristics it irrevocably
involves, or what characteristics intermixture
on any grand scale might produce. The
solution cannot work itself out without
searchings of heart; it is bound to cause
individual tragedies by the way; and no man
can foretell the course of it. But at least
it can be kept clear of base irrelevancies.
Quite apart from the question of whether a
white man should look upon the colored
woman as a wife, there is no question, but
a certainty, that he should look upon her as
a sister.”
THE PHILADELPHIA NEGRO DENTIST
gi ^	By J. MAX BARBER	gj gg

HE Philadelphia Negro
dentist has already become
a power in the community,
a factor for good among
his people. It was some
twenty-five years ago that,
the late Dr. William A.
Jackson completed a course in dentistry at
the famous old Philadelphia Dental College.
He was the janitor of the school before and
during the entire time he studied. The
doctor lived to build up a splendid prac-
tice, and before he died he aided, by counsel
and otherwise, several young men who came
into the field.
Here, as all over the country, there were
many colored people who did not, at first,
patronize the colored dentist. This is the
experience of all men of color in the pro-
fessions. Nor was this unnatural. The race
had been taught that a white skin was a
passport to virtue and honor and an insur-
ance against blunders and inefficiency.
And, too, the black professional man had
had no experience. In striking contrast to
the doubters, however, there were those whose
race loyalty outweighed every other con-
sideration. They took chances on their own,
preferring one of their own race with a little
less skill to a white man. The Negro pro-
fessional man quickly dispelled doubt by his
accomplishments. There certainly is now no
reason why he should not be patronized by
the race.
The Negro dentist here has become a
factor of social uplift. There are twenty
in Philadelphia, and they are meeting
and handling an average of seventy-five
patients a day. ' . They take in, as fees, an
average of $30,000 a year. Their outfits
represent an outlay of between $18,000 and
$20,000. The dentists themselves are invest-
ing in drugs and materials more than
$10,000 a year.
Think how all of this must help the race I
First, twenty high-class men are coming in
contact with 450 patients a wefck, repre-
senting every stratum of society. The 450
are receiving advice in oral hygiene;
are having their pains relieved; their
appearances improved; their digestions safe-
guarded and their opporftinities for a liveli-
hood enhanced. The future generations will
have a better chance in the race of life
because of all of these facts.
Second, the $30,000 taken in as fees go to
make of these twenty men substantial factors
in the community, because they are con-
sidered men of affairs. They receive that
consideration from dealers and citizens
which men of affairs are entitled to. This
money enables them to support decent homes
and families and to educate their children.
The money they spend for outfits and
materials is an asset in gaining the courtesy
of the white race.
Is the Philadelphia Negro dentist a suc-
cess? This is a question which cannot be
answered altogether in terms of dollars and
cents. Success must be measured by the
good one is doing for his fellow man. Using
this as a standard, I should certainly pro-
nounce the Negro dentist here a success.
He is certainly saving lives, relieving pain,
promoting oral cleanliness, making ugly
faces beautiful and establishing a point of
contact with the whites that helps the race.
The colored dentists here are all ethical prac-
titioners; with two or three exceptions, they
are all clean men physically and morally,
bearing themselves as gentlemen and leaders.
Many of them are skilful operators. It is
safe to say that those who have been in
the profession more than four years are
making an average of $1,500 a year. That
is more than the average teacher, preacher,
lawyer or government servant makes.
There are no Bentleys here. Dr. Charles
E.	Bentley, of Chicago, must make at least
$10,000 a year. He is’ at the very top of
the profession in his city and enjoys a large
practice among the wealthy citizens of the
Windy City. But we have men here who
make $5,000 a year, as, for instance, Dr.
R. R. Royster. Dr. Royster was the first
colored man to pass the Pennsylvania State
board. He worked his way through school
as a Pullman porter and a waiter, graduat-
ing in 1899 from the Pennsylvania Dental
College. Like most of our fellow men, he
bought his outfit on credit. His skill as an
operator soon attracted to him a very lucra-
tive practice. To-day his office is crowded
during work hours. Many of his patients
180
THE CRISIS
B. B. BOYSTEB, D. D. S.
are Hebrews. They are so well pleased with
him that no influence could induce them to
change their dentist.
Dr. Solomon Cox has been practising
longer than Dr. Royster. He began to prac-
tice dentistry before examinations were
required by the State board. His practice
is, perhaps, even larger than that of Dr.
Royster. South Philadelphia can boast no
more skilful or careful dental surgeon.
It was only a month ago that Dr W. T.
Robinson passed away. Sixteen years ago
he graduated from the dental school of the
University of Pennsylvania as the second
best man in the class. If providence had not
put upon him the badge of a black skin he
would have been honored as the first man in
scholarship in the class. He practised in
West Philadelphia since 1895, where he was
widely known as a pioneer dentist among
his people.
Dr. William Myers Slowe is a graduate
from Howard University. His success here,
where he has practised for the last ten years,
is a splendid argument for the dental school
at Howard. Dr. Slowe is, perhaps, the most
honored of the colored dentists in the city.
He is the president of our local dental
society, a member of the Philadelphia
Academy of Medicine and Allied Sciences,
a member of the National Medical Associa-
tion and dentist for the Home for Aged
Colored People. He is a civic force in
South Philadelphia.
Dr. V. Pinnock Bailey, of Germantown,
started practice, two years ago in a whirl-
wind. The dental dealers estimate his prac-
tice at $3,000 a year. It is undoubtedly true
that Dr. Bailey has a larger practice than any
of the younger practitioners, and it is also a
fact that he has the most costly outfit of any
colored dentist in the city. Dr. Bailey is
an operator of dispatch and skill, has a
splendid poise and great business acumen.
When a colored man can, by his own
efforts, go through a Northern professional
school without having had the opportunity
for at least the foundations for a classical
education, he deserves great credit. When,
after graduation, he can, by industry and
application, achieve success he deserves even
more credit. Among such men I would
mention particularly Dr. A. T. Overby and
Dr. James T. Howard. Dr. Overby came up
from • the farm, through the brickyard and
Pullman car to the operator’s chair. Dr.
Howard came by way of the brickyard, the
barber’s chair and the waiter’s apron to the
operator’s chair. Both of these men are
self made; neither had more than a prepara-
W. M. BLCWE, D. D. 8.
THE EPISCOPAL CHURCH
181
tory education, but both of them have become
educated gentlemen through hard work and
wide reading at home. Both are successful
dentists.
A very good percentage of the men in the
dental profession here are college graduates.
A majority of the men are Southern born,
but Pennsylvania is well represented.

THE EPISCOPAL CHURCH
T HAVE enjoyed reading The Crisis, with
the exception of the Christmas
number.
Your editorial on the Episcopal Church
was far fetched. Whoever reported to you
that the colored people were not well treated
at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine the
night you mentioned was certainly wrong.
I had several friends with me that night, and
the efforts of the ushers toward all colored
people was to seat them front, and in every
way to make them comfortable.
Then, too, that was the night when the
combined choir of the colored parishes of
New York City sang, and not at the delibera-
tion of the colored episcopate. This was
done at a regular session of the contention
separately by the house of bishops, and that
of the clerical and lay delegates.*/
I have no briefs for Bishops Hailor and
Nelson; they can take care of themselves.
My only desire in this is “to render to
Caesar the things that are Caesar’s.”
Yours,
(Rev.) A. G. Combs,
Nashville, Tenn.
B
Much as I regretted the arrangement of
the Cathedral service criticised in the Decem-
ber number of The Crisis, I still more
regret that it should represent to you the
attitude and meaning of the Episcopal
Church.
The Cathedral service was resented by
many church people, but it is fair to say
that it was a meeting not of the general
convention, but of the church institute and
for the purpose of raising funds chiefly. It
was not foreseen that the colored congrega-
tions of New York would attend in such,
numbers. ‘Most certainly the colored clergy
-should have been asked to take part as well
as the colored choirs. For the other speakers
it has been considered a good thing that the
Southern bishops should by their public
endorsement commit themselves to the high
educational standards and democratic spirit
of the church institute.
Later, at a full meeting of the general
convention, a joint session of both houses,
Bishop Ferguson, of Liberia, and Arch-
deacon Russell spoke and both were voted
additional time, although the white speakers,
Bishop Brent and others, were cut short.
I so much value your work and The
Crisis that it would be a great disappoint-
ment did I think you would not come to
recognize the contribution colored men and
women are making to the life of the
Episcopal Church as well as elsewhere in
our country.
Sincerely yours,
Henrietta Gardiner,
Lawrenceville, Ya.
C ERTAINTY
By LESLIE PINCKNEY HILL
WHAT have I fathomed of life,
What of its medley of strife,
Sorrow and solace profound?
What can we creatures of dust
Stand upon, swear by and trust,
What my unshakeable ground?
This: that though evil be strong,
Goodness prevaileth ere long
.However betrayed or beset;
That he his own spirit doth smother,
Who willeth the hurt of another;
And this: that God liveth yet.
HIS MAJESTY, THE LATE MENELIK II., KINO OF THE KINGS OF ETHIOPIA, EMPEROR OF ABYSSINIA, 18141013.
' A MERCHANT.
SIX. years ago Charles Thompson, a
colored man of Sault Ste. Marie,
Mich., opened a little one-chair boot-
blacking stand on the corner of an alley,
shining shoes and buying odd souvenirs from
the Indians as they passed by. After a
while he had purchased enough to place in
a little old showcase, which he displayed
in the window of a dilapidated frame build-
ing alongside of his shoe-shining stand.
Daily increasing his purchases and sales, he
at last gave up his shoe-shining stand, pur-
chased a larger showcase and entered the
frame building with an idea of doing
business in souvenirs. His indefatigable
effort and eager desire for better quarters
to display his goods inspired the owner of
the building to put up an $8,000 brick build-
ing, in which Mr. Thompson now has about
a $5,000 stock of goods consisting of
souvenirs, embroidery, notions and a rare
line of agate goods.
The needlework is done by Mrs. Thompson,
who is an adept in sewing.
T7HAKLES THOMPSON’ 8 ART STORE, SAULT 8AXNTE MARIE, MI OH.
MEN OF THE MONTH
185
A YOUNG STUDENT.
JOSEPH MALCOLM FAREIRA, of
Germantown, leads his class in the
boys* high school of Philadelphia. There
are seventy white boys and one other colored
boy in the class. Most of the white boys in
the class come from Philadelphia and many
are the sons of the best white people in the
city.
Fareira’s leadership of these boys is pro-
nounced and undisputed. In his language
and mathematic tests he frequently made
as is often done in the case of brainy
Negroes. The name of Joseph Fareira has
already been placed upon the list of “dis-
tinguished members” of the class, aud he is
a strong candidate for one of the high-school
scholarships at the University of
Pennsylvania.
a
MENEHK
rTy HE Emperor of Abyssinia, who was
*•* stricken by paralysis several years
ago and several times reported dead, died
MB. J. M. F ABE IRA.
100 per cent, and has always been exempt
from examinations because of his perfect
recitations. That he is popular as well as
brilliant is attested by the fact that he was
almost unanimously elected as president of
the class, which is thought to be one of the
most brilliant that the school has ever gradu-
ated. His suggestion for a memorial to
leave the school was accepted and he him-
self drew the design. It is to be a star-
shaped mat upon which will be mounted the
pictures of the members, of the class.
So far as is known this young student,
who is 17 years old, has no white blood in
his veins, but is of a distinct Negro type,
in color and features. His brilliancy can-
not, therefore, be -attributed to white blood,
THE EMPEBOB OF ABYSSINIA.
December IS. He was born in 1844, and
was the son of the Prince of Shoa, the
southern of the four great provinces which
make up the empire. He claimed an un-
broken descent of nearly 3,000 years from
Maqueda, Queen of Sheba. . When the
Emperor Theodore committed suicide in
1867 Menelik became King of Shoa, and
in 1889 was proclaimed Emperor of
Abyssinia. In 1893 he inflicted the crush-
ing defeat of Adoa upon the Italians, leav-
ing 7,000 of them dead on the field. His
great Queen Taitou led one of the charges
against the foe. Since then Abyssinia has
been unmolested by Europeans. Mpnplilr is
succeeded by his grandson, Lidj Jeassu, a
boy of 16.
50,000.
N February, 1911, we
asked for 10,000 sub-
scribers and purchasers.
We had them inside of
two months. In April,
1911, we asked for
25,000 subscribers. We had them before
January, 1913. We asked for complete
financial independence and stated that
this meant 50,000 subscribers and pur-
chasers by January 1, 1915. We have
32,500 to-day. As a subscriber to The
Crisis or a reader of its pages will you
not send us one new subscriber this year
and let us walk into the class of the
larger magazines next Christmas?
WOEK FOB BLACK FOLK IN 1914.
E R I C A N citizens of
Negro descent and their
friends have much to do
in 1914, if they are to
stem the rising tide of
racial proscription.
First—They must meet the new
•attack* on property rights of colored
people which, under the name of “ segre-
gation’ ’ and under the excuse of such
equitable adjustment of social relations
as to avoid “friction,” is really a wide-
spread attempt to prevent colored
people from making good investments
or living in decent homes. Its latest
appearance is directed toward prevent-
ing Negroes from buying agricultural
land, and against this last and most
dangerous propaganda what honest
American can withhold his influence
and help?
Second—The attack on property is
the natural child of the refusal of the
right to work to Negroes. The year
1914 should see a determined attempt
to break down the rules and customs
which bar black men from labor unions
and discriminate against them in other
ways in their attempt to earn a living.
The worst examples of this are in
the contract labor laws of the South
which virtually legalize peonage in
agriculture. All of the advance labor
legislation in the South specifically
excepts “agriculture and housework”!
Third—We might 'wait for all-healing
time and reason in these economic
difficulties if education was all right.
But education for Negroes is awry,
and our work for 1914 is to begin to
right it. Under the guise of introducing
“industrial” training the colored city
public school has, first, been differen-
tiated from the white system; secondly,
shortened in length so as to end at the
sixth and seventh grades, while the white
schools have usually ten and twelve
grades; and, finally, it is now openly
proposed to so change the character of
grade work that even the lower-grade
work will not be concentrated on read-
ing, writing and ciphering, but will
teach Negroes to work, which, as Super-
visor Guy, of Charleston, thinks, is more
important than their learning to read.
Of course the majority of Negroes in
the country districts have no decent
school facilities at all and here, surely,
is work for 1914.
Fourth—The civil rights of Negroes
need defense in 1914. The annoying and
EDITORIAL
187
illegal race discrimination in the civil
service, in hotels, restaurants, theatres,
churches and Young Men’s Christian
Associations must be squarely and
frankly investigated and systematically
opposed.
Fifth—The robbery of the Negroes’
political rights is the cause, and was in-
tended to be the cause, of the invasion
of the Negroes’ civil, educational and
economic rights. Disfranchisement for
race or sex must go, and the work of
1914 is flatly and fearlessly to restore
democratic government in the South and
overthrow the oligarchy which rests on
the worst rotten borough system known
to the modern world in civilized States.
Sixth—Finally, in 1914, the Negro
must demand his social rights: His
right to be treated as a gentleman when
he acts like one, to marry any sane,
grown person who wants to marry him,
and to meet and eat with his friends
without being accused of undue assump-
tion or unworthy ambition.
This is the black man’s program for
1914, and the more difficult it looks the
more need for following it courageously
and unswervingly. It is not a radical
p r o g r a m—it is conservative and
reasonable.
P. S.—The above statement was
solicited by the Survey and accepted;
then it was returned because the writer
refused to omit number six!
m
A LETTER.
NOTICE in this past issue
a number of people who
wrote you and some felt
that you were rather in-
clined to be inflammatory
in your denunciation of
wrong. Now I think just the opposite.
I think we have crushed truth and sub-
mitted to indignities so long that
people in America think we do not know
when we are mistreated or insulted; in
fact, I have heard people say we are
really too ignorant to know when we are
imposed upon. Truth itself is harsh on
the man or woman who must stand by
conviction, and truth must dare the
harsh thing in order to awaken con-
science and sentiment. For my part, I
desire you, with all my heart, to con-
tinue to do as you have been doing, and
if I had the means I would see to it that
The Crisis went to thousands of people
who need to read it in order to have
their eyes opened. We are slumbering
over and upon the tired, subdued wrongs
and crushed lives of our people, and
know not of their writhings and sor-
rows, all because we have kept still when
we should have spoken out, and with me,
free speech tempered, of course, with
the best reason and coolest logic, is the
only thing that will stir the citizens of
America to do their duty.
While I was East I was in attendance
upon the meeting of the Woman’s Home
Missionary Society of our church, the
Methodist Episcopal, and I was success-
ful in getting our ladies to register a
protest against the recent law enacted in
Florida. I felt that it was but right that
the American people should know, as a
great body of women representing one
of the greatest protestant forces in
America, that we registered our protest
against such iniquities, and I send you
under separate cover a copy of the same
that you may know the stand we took,
and I shall be very glad to hear from
you, some time, to know your impression
of it, and if it will do our cause any
good I shall be glad for you to use it or
any part of it or comment on* it as you
see fit in The Crisis.
I am glad for the open letter you sent
President Wilson. It was what we
needed and I surely have not read any-
thing better as an appeal in behalf of
justice and right in a long time.
I hope you will be strong and very
courageous, for our cause is right and
it must prevail.
188
THE CRISIS
THE SOUTH AND THE SADDLE.
["Should I become President of the United States,
they (the colored people) may count on me for absolute
fair dealing and for everything by which I could assist
in advancing the interests of their race in the United
States.’’]
HJESE were Mr. Wilson’s
words October 16, 1912.
Why has the P-resident
failed to keep them ?
It is not because he
did not mean them. He
did mean what he said. But Mr. Wilson
is seeking to keep his party intact for
carrying through certain legislation.
That party in Congress consists to-day
of 290 Representatives and 51 Senators,
against an opposition of 127 Representa-
tives and 45 Senators. Moreover, the
President’s party of 341 includes 115
Senators and Representatives from for-
mer slave States.
If these 115 members withdrew their
support Mr. Wilson’s party would be a
minority of 226 votes against 287. For
his policies, therefore, Mr. Wilson must
have the solid South, and the solid South
has but one political tenet: “Down
with Niggers!’7
But how is it that the solid South is
numerically so strong in Congress?
Because it represents not simply
16.000.	000 white Southerners, but
8.000.	000 disfranchised blacks. Thus the
disfranchisement of blacks gives the
Southern whites a club to beat them
with.
Not only that, but it gives the
Southern whites an abnormal advantage
over the Northern voters. This is easy
to prove:
In ten Southern States it took, in
1912, 1,110,034 votes to elect 94 Cong-
ressmen. In the rest of the United States
it took 13,926,508 votes to elect 323
Congressmen. In other words, 43,116
ignorant and low-down Northerners and
Westerners are necessary to elect a
representative to Congress, but only
11,808 aristocratic and wise white
Southerners are needed to seat a Negro
hater in our highest legislature. No
wonder the South is in. the saddle when
it wields four times the political power
of the North!
m
HETCH-HETCHY.
HAT is the remedy for the
unfair political prepon-
derance of the South ?
Reduction of representa-
tion. This the Republi-
cans have undertaken
for representation in the national con-
vention. We are glad of it. The only
persons who benefited from full repre-
sentation were the heelers of the “lilly-
white ’ ’ movement in most Southern
States, thanks to Mr. Taft. The next
step will be to reduce the representa-
tion of the whole South, in order to
release the West and the North from its
intolerable political dictatorship.
We wonder if in anticipation of
Western disaffection the Hetch-Hetchy
bill was signed ?
m
OSWALD GARRISON VTLLARD.
VTLLARD has been the
chairman of the execu-
tive board of the National
Association for the
Advancement of Colored
People from the day of
its founding until January 1, 1914. He
took it when it was nothing but an idea
and left it a nation-wide movement, with
twenty-four branches and 3,000 mem-
bers, out of debt, aggressive and full of
faith. Mr. Villard now feels that some
of his burden should be shared by others
and therefore becomes treasurer and
chairman of the finance committee, while
Dr. Joel E. Spingarn succeeds him as
chairman of the board of directors.
Every colored man in America owes a
debt to Mr. Villard. Others have
shouted louder at the hustings and de-
bated and theorized, but not a single
worker for the new abolition has
shouldered so much actual responsibility
or done so much downright hard work
or raised so much cash to pay our
bills. The task has been hard.—harder
EDITORIAL
189
than many realize—and the cost for an
overburdened man of affairs has been
heavy. But the result will in the end
pay for the effort. The Negro race owes
a debt of deep gratitude to the grandson
of William Lloyd Garrison.
a
WE MOVE.
HE National Association
for the Advancement of
Colored People and The
Crisis will move into
larger and more con-
venient quarters Febru-
ary 1. The Crisis was founded in one
room of the Evening Post Building, 20
Vesey Street; it overflowed into two
and three rooms, and finally moved
with the association to larger quarters
in the Evening Post Annex, 26 Vesey
Street, in March, 1912. Sere we have
become so congested that we must move
again. After February 1 the associa-
tion will occupy a suite of four offices
on the eleventh floor of the Educational
Building, 70 Fifth Avenue, at the cor-
ner of 13th Street, and near Union
Square. The Crisis will occupy a suite
of six offices on the fifth floor of the
same building. In the building are
Ginn & Company, the well-known pub-
lishers, and the People's Institute.
We. shall welcome our friends and
readers at all times.
m
“I WAS SICK!"
ACCOMPANIED a
friend on a visit to Har-
lem Hospital this last
Sunday. This friend is
serving on a committee
of the social-s e r v i c e
bureau of some Jewish organization and
her duty was to visit the sick in various
hospitals and offer a word of comfort
to the friendless, etc. I was particularly
struck by the fact that very few of the
colored patients in that hospital had
friends—and we went during visiting
hours when most of the patients had
visitors.
'‘Could not such a movement be
started through the medium of The
Crisis or other agency for the colored
people—if such a movement is not
already on foot?
“Very truly yours,
(Signed) 4'Gertrude C krystal."
What on earth are the colored
churches of New York doing?
THE NEGBO AND THE LAND.
ISFRANCHISE the Ne-
gro, give him an educa-
tion and full rights of
work and property.
This will settle the
Negro problem." Such
was the argument put forward in 1890
when Mississippi began the nullification
of the United States Constitution.
What has been the result ? The
Negro problem is not settled despite the
fact that nine-tenths of the colored men,
21 years of age and over, have lost their
votes in the Gulf States. Education has
been restricted, cheapened and lowered
in efficiency, and most Negro children
of school age are out of school. Low
wages and caste restrictions hamper the
Negro worker and show little abatement.
And the right to hold property?
Even this is being openly attacked. In
Southern and border cities a half dozen
ordinances are making it difficult or
impossible for Negroes to purchase city
homes.
But there is the rural South, the
haven of refuge for all true black men,
if they read the Gospel according to
oxir best friends correctly. And yet
listen to this, by Clarence Poe, of North
Carolina, editor of the widely read
Progressive Farmer:
*11 have received hundreds and
hundreds of letters, representing fifteen
States, endorsing the plan of race seg-
regation I advocated on this page,
August 30. * • •
“The law I advocated August 30, it
will be remembered, was just this:
'Whenever the greater part of the land
190
THE CRISIS
acreage in any given district that may
be laid off is owned by one race, a
majority of the voters in such a dis-
trict may say, if they wish, that in
future no land shall be sold to a person
of a different race: provided such
action is approved or allowed (as being
justified by considerations of the peace,
protection and social life of the com-
munity) by a reviewing judge or board
of county commissioners. ’
“Such a board, as L have said, could
be used by any white community to keep
itself white, but the Negro would almost
never be able to use it to make a com-
munity wholly Negro. If you are in
favor of such a plan and want to know
more about it. send me a postal card
or letter at once.”
What is the reason of all this? This
is the reason in North Carolina:
Colored Farmers
1900	1910
Farms owned............... 17.520	21,443
Land in farms owned.... 965,452	1,197,496
Per cent, of improved
land..................... 40.9	42.S
Value of property owned. S,S2S,5S1 27,44S,410
Value of land...........5,351.290	17,063,5SS
Increase of value of all farm property,
1900-1910, 130 per cent.; of land and build-
ings, 134 per cent.
This is the reason in the United
States:
Value of farm property farmed by colored
farmers ..............................
Value of farm property owned by colored
farmers ..............................
Value land of owners......................
Value buildings of owners.................
Value implements of owners................
Value live stock of owners................
MIGRATION.
IIE Oklahoma movement
for migration to Africa
is a poorly conceived
idea and we warn our
r e a dcrs against it.
Migration to-day is a
serious matter and should be planned
and financed on a large scale. It is
foolish for individuals with small sums
of money and no knowledge of the
country to go to Africa. Africa needs
capital, not labor; it needs technical
knowledge and executive ability and not
small farmers.
Ordinary inexperienced farmers and
laborers migrating from America to
Africa would succumb to the trying
climate in very short time.
Let the migration idea stop at present.
Fight out the battle in Oklahoma and
protect the masses against the charlatan
who is stealing their money.
There is no steamship in New York
building for the African trade and
owned by Negroes, and the alleged
African chief traveling in Oklahoma is
nothing but a common cheat who be-
longs in jail.
		Increase	
	Increase		for
1900	1910	Per Cent.	whites
$546,723,50S	$1,279,234,245	134	99.6
179,796,639 102,022,601	440,922,439	145.2	93.2
	277,391,441	171.9	109.2
2S,662,167	69,354,013	142	74.1
S,352.975	15,S52,S14	89.8	69
40,75S,S96	78,324,171	92.2	59.1
Here we are then: Advance toward
property and independent farm owner-
ship and a movement among our “best
friends’9 to stop it.
We confess to some bewilderment in
this development, and we are waiting
for enlightenment from those wise
statesmen who have been volubly lead-
ing us out of the wilderness in these last
ten years.
RESISTANCE.
HE Hindus in Natal and
the Chinese in Panama
are resisting white op-
pression. It is a good
sign, not simply for
colored folk, but for
white folk. Bad as oppression is for the
oppressed, it is worse for the oppressor.
For the sake of both it should cease.

C:>
v
4?
4?
4?
<£>
THE ANNUAL MEETING
OF THE
Aatimtal Assuriatimi for the Aduaur?m?ut
of (Unlnrpii ppopl?
c>
v
A
<=3>
<h

JOEL £. SPINQARN, CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIREOTORS.
192
THE CRISIS
ANNUAL MEETING.
^ 1 'HE annual meeting of the National
-*• Association for the Advancement of
Colored People, held in the Charities Audi-
torium, New York, on January 5, was well
attended and was a distinct success. Among
those present were Mrs. Henry Villard, Miss
Lillian D. Wald, President Henry C. King,
of Oberlin, Mrs. Max Morgenthau, Jr., Dr.
Charles E. Bentley, Mrs. Florence Kelley,
Mr. Butler R. Wilson, Mr. Archibald H.
Grimke, Dr. F. N. Cardoza, Mr. Ray
Stannard .Baker, Mrs. Robert M. La
Follette and many others.
At the business session in the afternoon
reports of officers and committees were read.
The report of the chairman of the board
showed an increase in the income and mem-
bership of the association of over 100 per
cent., and a most encouraging record of
accomplishments. The Crisis, with its cir-
culation of 32,000, reaches 150,000 readers.
This report will be printed in full.
W
REPORTS OP BRANCHES.
"V^ OST interesting were the reports of
^ A branches, which lack of space pre-
vents our giving in detail here. They will
be printed in full in the annual Teport of
the association. Dr. Cardoza, in a few
telling words, described the splendid work
of the Baltimore branch, dwelling upon the
work of legal redress. Twice the branch,
co-operating with national headquarters, has
won its case against the segregation ordi-
nance, and now it looks as if this might be
carried up to the Supreme Court of the
United States. The branch has invited the
association to hold its conference in Balti-
more in the spring, and is now laying the
groundwork for this.
Mr. Butler R. Wilson, the able secretary
of the Boston branch, gave a most interest-
ing account of its organization and various
activities. They have handled'several cases
of discrimination most successfully and their
work of legal redress is rapidly developing
in importance. During the year, in addition
to the support of-their own special activi-
ties, the Boston branch sent to national
headquarters almost $2,000.
Dr. Charles E. Bentley, from Chicago,
gave a graphic description of the fight the
bfauch waged last year against the flood of
hostile legislation which followed the Jack
Johnson episode. No less than three anti-
intermarriage bills, one “Jim Crow” bill and
a full-crew bill, which would have deprived
colored porters in Illinois of their positions,
were smothered in committee through the
activities of the branch. Many new mem-
bers have been added during the year and
the branch has most ambitious plans for
developing its work in the future.
No one at the meeting so eloquently ex-
pressed the real spirit of the association's
work as Mr. Archibald H. Grimke, under
whose brilliant leadership the Washington
branch has become a powerful, cohesive
body and a great source of strength to our
organization. Mr. Grimke had the complete
attention of his audience, which was pro-
foundly touched by his appeal for the
necessity of unity of effort and the laying
aside of all personal differences. He said
in part:
“We in Washington have had to work
definitely to arouse the colored people them-
selves to their danger, to make them feel it
through and through, and at the same time
to make them willing to make sacrifices for
the cause. Of course, those who know any-
thing about Washington know that it is
rather a difficult proposition to tackle.
Washington is broken up into all sorts of
factions.
“Segregation was the thing that did the
work for us. The people became aroused
and began to look around for the instru-
ment that could help them. We took great
pains to .point out that there was only one
instrument in fact (and I mean no dis-
paragement to other organizations), but
there is only one organization in this country
that can do this work, and that is the
National Association for the Advancement
of Colored People. There is no use to divide
ourselves among a lot of little things, small
organizations, some of them really organiza-
tions on paper only and, like the Haitian
army, composed entirely of colonels and
generals. Now, we have the machinery; we
Vhave the organization; and I called the
attention of our Washington people to the
fact that it is of the utmost importance
that we assist such an organization' in its
work.
“One reason why I am interested in this
effort, why I am willing to devote the re-
mainder,. of my life to it, is that’we are
preparing a machine that will be useful
ll
THE ANNUAL MEETING
193
fifty years after we are dead. Mr. Villard
is doing it, Mr. Spingarn is doing it, Miss
Nerney is doing it, Mr. Russell is doing it.
They are all preparing a great machine.
We in Washington must help; also the
people in Boston. We must help to prepare
the machine that can be used when the great
leader comes upon the platform. He may
not come for a generation, but let us pre-
pare the machine, so that when he does come
he will not have to use his powers to invent
one. And it is my belief that that leader
is going to be a colored man. We have not
the colored man now, for he must be a
colored man with a great brain and a great
heart who can take in all the little differences
among us and can reconcile them.
We must shake this country by agitation.
We have that firmly fixed in our minds in
Washington. What we must do is not only to
ialk, for talk is really cheap. All of us are
willing to say what we will do, what we will
sacrifice, but we want the proof of what you
will do. I said to the Washington people:
u ‘Have you any wrongs? Are you willing
to let white people do more for you than
you are willing to do for yourselves? Are
you going to let the people in New York
do your work for you and you not make any
sacrifices? You must show these people
that you are willing to make sacrifices—
sacrifices of speech, sacrifices of action, sac-
rifices of money. You must give/
“They have done this. It is a perfectly
wonderful piece of revival in Washington.
I never believed that the thing could be done,
but it has been done in Washington. School
teachers whom you would not believe cared
for anything but pleasure, society women,
young men, have given themselves up, and I
can scarcely speak of it without being
touched almost to tears. It has been a tre-
mendous revelation.
“If we could only get the colored people
to understand that they must make sacrifices
just as the white people make sacrifices,
and as the anti-slavery people did. Let us
never hear of drawing the color line in this
association. What we care for is not whether
a man or a woman is white or colored, but is
that man or that woman the best person to do
a certain piece of work. Without any regard
to color, the right person must be put to
work and you and I must back him up if
we mean to get effective action. To put up
somebody against somebody else simply
because he is colored would be a fatal mis-
take and would make this association an
ineffective association.
“What are these white people here for?
We are brothers and sisters, and as brothers
and sisters we must use each other to the
best advantage. This association is the one
organization dedicated to our freedom and
we must do all in our power to make it
stronger and stronger.
“This is the spirit we have carried into
the Washington branch. From Washington
we have sent to headquarters since October
27 something like $2,500, raised by the
colored people for this work. We have
made no effort to reach the white people.
Our effort was to reach 100,000 colored
people. The work that has gone on is won-
derful. A regular bureau of speakers has
been organized. They have gone from
church to church, from society to society,
from secret lodge to secret lodge, sometimes
speaking two or three times in a day and
at night, until at last they have reached
everyone and everyone was willing to give
something.
“This committee was organized after the
great meeting of the 27th of October. We
were not able to raise much money that
night. A committee of 250 and more was
organized, and each person was pledged to
give either out of his own pocket or to raise
in some way $25. They have done this
and some have raised a great deal more. We
have gotten our collections from the
churches, from the lodges and from individu-
als. We have gotten Washington ready to
give and Washington has given.
“It was suggested that we have a paid
secretary in Washington, but I discouraged
this. I said that with headquarters in New
York we cannot afford to spend any money
in Washington, but send every cent to New
York. We sent every cent that we raised
except our expenses—even the membership
fees, of which we had a right to keep one-
half—and we expect to send within a few
days $500 more, hoping at last to reach the
$3,000 mark. It is not so much the giving
of which we are proud, but it is the dis-
position of the colored people. They are
finally becoming aroused.
“If I could have a word to say to our
other branches, I would say to them that
all moneys ought to be sent to headquarters.
In some way we must make this associa-
tion self-sustaining, and if the colored
people themselves could do it, it would be an
194
THE CRISIS
immense advantage to us. This is our chance.
We will never have another. If this asso-
ciation dies we will never have another body
of white people who will come together as
these white men and women have come to-
gether and espouse our cause—and I am
speaking, as it were, over the possible grave
of the liberty of the colored people in this
country. Do not trifle with your oppor-
tunity. You are in a great. crisis. The
spirit which we need, the spirit which we
must have, is that we must not only be
willing to do, but we must be willing to
give.
“The colored people seem to love more
dearly their money than their lives. We
must teach them to give; teach them to dare;
teach them their strength. When we have
done that, and have buried all our little
differences, when we forget that we are white
and that we are colored in this organization,
when we are simply men and women,
brothers and sisters in the most glorious
cause in this country, then we have done
what the old anti-slavery people did: We
have set a torch, we have lighted it, we have
applied it to the republic, and all the
wickedness, all the wrong, will be finally
burnt out of it, if it takes fifty or seventy-
five years/'
a
BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
|r HE following directors, whose terms
expire in 1917, were elected: Miss
Jane Addams, Chicago; Mr. Elbridge L.
Adams, New York; Dr. C. E. Bentley,
Chicago; Rev. Hutchins C. Bishop, New
York; Rev. W. H. Brooks, New York; Dr.
W. E. B. Du Bois, New York; Mrs. Florence
Kelley, New York; Miss Mary White
Ovington, Brooklyn; Mr. Charles Edward
Russell, New York; Mr. John 0. Underhill,
New York.
Officers.
At the board meeting, held immediately
after the business session, the following
officers were elected: National president,
Mr. Moorfield Storey, Boston; vice-presi-
dents, Rev. John Haynes Holmes, New York;
Mr. John E. Milholland, New York; Mr.
Archibald H. Grimk4, Washington; Rev.
Garnett R. Waller, Baltimore; Miss Mary
White Ovington, Brooklyn; chairman of the
board of directors, Dr^ Joel E. Spingarn;
director of publicity and research, Dr.
W. E. B. Du Bois; treasurer, Mr. Oswald
Garrison Villard; attorney, Mr. Chapin
Brinsmade; secretary, Miss May Childs
Nerney.
Public Session.
The speakers at the public session in
the evening, which was devoted to the
subject of segregation, were Mrs. Robert
M. La Follette, Dr. W. E. B. Du Bois and
Mr. Charles Edward Russell. Mr. Villard
presided. Mr. Russell’s address, delivered
with his customary eloquence, was warmly
applauded. His picture of the discomforts
and indignities which colored people suffer
in “Jim Crow” cars was one never to be
forgotten. His comment on the rumor that
the government has reversed its policy of
segregation, “I think I know a political side
step when I see it,” drew smiles from his
audience who listened with profound atten-
tion when he went on to show the signifi-
cant relation of the ballot to the present
condition of the colored people and the power
they could even now wield in the pivotal
States if they would present a united front.
Mrs. La Follette was enthusiastically
greeted. She spoke with deep feeling and
conviction on the condition of the colored
people in the District of Columbia, telling
of her long residence among them there.
She condemned segregation in the most
unqualified terms, saying that segregation in
street cars, in government departments and
in other public places would be a national
disgrace. “Riding in street cars is not a
social privilege. If you ride in your own
conveyance you can invite whom you please
to ride with you. On a public car all lines
of distinction and caste must be disregarded.
The United States Government stands back
of the civil sendee. Whatever is done there
has the stamp of government approval.
There are over 11,000 colored employees
working for the United States Government,
more than half of them in Washington.
They have competed with white people for
their positions and are justly proud of the
success they have achieved. This spirit,
according to every ethical principle, should
be encouraged by the "United States, and it
is a shame that a government should put
its stamp of approval upon such unjust
measures against a struggling people.”
Resolutions of protest were wired from the
meeting to the President and to the Secretary
of the Treasury.
THE
HOODOO
195
OUR STANDARD FOR 1914.
' |f7 HE board of directors and officers wish
A to express for the National Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Colored
People their heartfelt gratitude and appre-
ciation to the com-
mittee of fifty and
more, which has been
working under the
auspices of the Dis-
trict of Columbia
branch. Through
their efforts we have
been able to clear a
debt of over $1,000,
and now have a
balance in bank. This
is entirely the work
of the colored people.
Since October 27
they have sent almost
$2,500 to the
National Association,
and the District of
Columbia branch has
the honor of being
the first branch to
subscribe $100 for
the salary of the
attorney. A com-
parison of this year's
membership with last
year's for the period
covering from October to January shows
an increase of nearly 700 per cent. These
figures indicate that the branch is surety
reaching the people.
What this means in work those who have
not lived in Washington cannot understand.
Personal differences have been laid aside.
Great sacrifices of time and money have
been made. People who had already worked
almost to the limit of their physical endur-
ance have added the
strain of night hours,
speaking, organizing,
campaigning cease-
lessly, and with what
glorious results. To
have aroused this
spirit in the city of
Washington is
nothing short of a
miracle, for almost
every man employed
by the government or
by the schools risks
his position when he
stands on our mili-
tant platform.
Even more than
the substantial fruits
of their work do we
appreciate this won-
derful spirit which
has animated it and
which is an inspira-
tion not only to us
in New York, but
also to all our
branches. They have
set a high standard. May we all live up to
it. We regard their work as by far the
greatest achievement of the past year.
What we need now is similar effort in all
great centers of Negro population.
MRS. ROBERT M. I*A FOIiLETTE.
THE HOODOO
gggg	By MARTHA GRUENING	g§§§

HEN I dropped into Bobby's
room that evening for a
quiet chat I was annoyed
to find James Herrick
there. I had never quite
apprived Bobby's enthu-
siastic friendship for him,
though I suppose the boy's pride in his
intimacy with an author and a man ten years
his senior is natural enough. If my nephew
had shown any sign of realizing my annoy-
ance, had contrived to hint that he, too,
deplored Herrick's presence on this occasion,
I might have minded less, but his delight in
it was only too apparent.
"Oh, come in," he greeted me radiantly.
“Jimmy's here, spinning yarns. I hated to
have you miss it."
Bobby and I have a very solid esteem for
one another, but Herrick is the romantic
creature who has captured his imagination.
I found the latter seated in the big arm-
chair before the fire, with three or four of
Bob's young friends, Dane and Carrington,
196
THE CRISIS
and some I didn’t know, gronped around him.
There was something irritatingly school-
boyish and hero worshiping in their attitude.
Bobby’s somewhat perfunctory introduc-
tions were soon over and he turned his
shining face back to his friend.
"Go on. Jimmy,” he urged, “your
impossible one—you promised.”
And then ihe slight stir made by my
entrance subsided and Herrick’s soft
Southern voice and the occasional snapping
of a log were the only sounds in the room.
“It’s about a man I knew—a friend nf
mine,” Herrick said slowly, “and the reason
I call it impossible, and that some of you
will find it hard to believe, is that all his. life
he seemed to suffer from a kind of hoodoo—
bad luck—whatever you like to eall it- It’s
the kind of thing one seoffs at if it’s offered
as an excuse for failure, but I knew him
and know that it was true.
"I knew him for fifteen years—eager,
busy, striving years that were full of work
and hope and dreams and just as full of dis-
appointment and failure and crushing humil-
iation- There’s nothing so strange in that,
perhaps—the queer thing about it was that
he had all the qualities that make for suecess.
When I knew him he was young and strong,
he had talent and perseverance; just the
sort of fellow you’d say would sueeeed. Yet
he never did and never could for no reason
but that fatal curse which hung over him, of
whieh he was aware, but which even he never
fully understood- Perhaps none of us knew
the strength of that curse until too late.
There are some people horn within a
shadow, it seems, and those who stand out-
side of it can stretch out their arms to
them, but can’t ever lift it or reach beyond
it, except sometimes like this, when it is too
late-”
Herriek seemed lost in thought for a
moment and little Dane shuddered with
ecstatic sympathy. The other boys sat very
still, their rapt young faces toward him.
There is a kind of spell about Herrick,
especially that voice of his.
"He was ten or twelve years younger than
I,” Herriek went on, "and his name was
Edgar Lewis. I knew him first as a merry
little chap of 5 or 6. He had the usual
poor but honest parents, and the more
honest they were the poorer they remained;
or maybe ’twas the other way round. They
were our nearest neighbors,. living about
a mile-down the road. I don’t really know
much about the elder Lewises, for Edgar
was an orphan when I first began to notice
him, but I always suspected that he’d
inherited bis hoodoo. I do know that next
to Edgar his father, Tom Lewis, was about
as unlucky a man as I ever knew.
“He was a farmer, but he didn’t have the
shiftlessness that is so common in our part
of ibe world, and though lie wasn’t a
Yankee, be was thrift}’. The harder he
worked, however, the worse luck he seemed
to have, and though he was inoffensive
enough, he had enemies—and bitter ones.
So his crops were burned and his mule
poisoned and, finally, one night (you’ve
heard of feuds in Kentucky—well, we have
them in Alabama, too)—one night a gang
of feudists, let us call them, descended on
his shack. They called him to the door and
shot him down in cold blood and then—I
hate to tell you this—they went in and had
their, way with his wife and daughter. There
were about a dozen, of them, but no one
ever saw their faces, though the poor half-
crazed daughter, who managed to eseape
after they killed her mother, swore that she
knew their voiees. But, of eourse, no one
paid any attention to what she said and,
fortunately, she died soon after.
"This happened when Edgar was 6, and
I suppose that his escape was the first
example of his hideous’ luck. His mother
had hidden him under a quilt in the wood-
box and told him to lie still and not cry, no
matter what happened, till she or his sister
ealled him- So he lay there trembling all
over, but not daring to cry, although he
heard her screaming and struggling. He
listened very carefully to see whether she
wouldn’t call ‘Edgar* or ‘sonny,’ but she
didn’t. For hours he lay under the stuffy
quilt, and at last he did cry, but very quietly,
the tears just rolling down his nose and
cheeks and onto his neck and making him so
wet and uncomfortable that he couldn’t stay
there any longer. He thought his mother
must have forgotten to call him, anyway, ao
he crawled out of the wood box. into the
blazing daylight—and you can imagine what
he saw.
"How much he knew, how much he under*
stood,.how mach of it became dear iiv after
years. mingled with his recollections I
do not know. I only know that he ran
Bcrpatmang- and sobbing until he caxne to oar
X Tvm+rf\h*r hwt lufriting into the
dining nooeauwhere I sat with my mother, and.
THE HOODOO
197
how we tried to soothe him and disentangle
his story from the incoherent sobbing tor-
rent of his words and our sudden sickening
realization of what it meant.
“Of course the county should have cared
for Edgar, but the county had its hands
and all its institutions full. There were
plenty of earlier victims of feuds and other
untoward happenings and, besides, there are
plenty of chances for a boy to take care of
himself in a community like ours. At first
he stayed with us a bit, the servants caring
for him, but soon they tired of it and so,
at 7, Edgar was thrown on his own
resources. He worked sometimes in the
fields and sometimes ran errands or did odd
jobs in the houses of the wealthier people
in our town, but chiefly he worked outdoors.
He ate the food that was given him, cold
cornbread and the like—this was wages, you
understand—and slept wherever he could
find a place to sleep.
“But his hoodoo never slept. It was
strange the way the boy, who was the
friendliest soul in the world, made enemies.
He was the shyest, gentlest, most willing
creature imaginable, though he had in him
some of the proudest blood of the South;
soft spoken and diffident and yet with a
kind of eager hopefulness of which his
experience never robbed him, and it was
strange the way people were always mistak-
ing it for insolence and punishing him. The
farmers he worked for said they’d ‘take it
out of him/ and I suppose they did. It
was strange, too, that his history left people
untouehcd. Of course feuds engender bitter
feelings, and yet it does seem odd that in all
these years I never heard a word of pity
for him, except from my mother, perhaps,
or our old cook, Mandy.
“I can’t help wondering sometimes at the
frenzy of erueltv the very sight of him used
to evoke in people—and decent, harmless
enough people, too, at least at other times.
How deeply all this unfriendliness wounded
Edgar I didn’t know until long afterward.
I went away to college and abroad and
came back to find him grown into his early
teens, a rather awkward boy, still shy and
secretly friendly and easily, so very easily,
touched by a little kindness. There was
nothing merry about him now, but at the
back of his dark, soft eyes there was sdll
that same wistful hopefulness. If he still
had hope he had to a certain extent lost con-
fidence, however. When you spoke to hist
he seemed to expect an insult or even a
blow and if you passed him on the street
he shrank aside with timid haste. In those
days he had already pondered much, but
always secretly, over the fate that kept him
from the things that were easily within the
reach of others and especially on the mean-
ing of that night of terror and the red
dawn, which were almost his earliest
recollections.
"He had gone to school three or four
months a year and learned to read and wriie
very* slowly and painstakingly, chiefly, I
suppose, because this was the only way in
which his teacher could read and write.
Here for the first time in his life he found
some sort of companionship and happiness.
Indeed it almost seemed as though his
hoodoo had forgotten him, for in the little
rural school he found that he liked to draw
pictures with chalk on the blackboard and
with pencil on paper, and the discovery
elated him. He used to fill his pockets with
chalk and walk along trying to make pic-
tures on every rock and fence and telegraph
pole he saw—that is, until his hoodoo awoke
and some one came to drive him away. He
had always been a dreamy boy and this had
frequently gotten him into trouble with
those for whom he worked, but now he was
in trouble all the time, for his life was all
dreams and any work except picture making
he looked on as a brief and necessary evil.
“Somehow or other it had filtered to his
knowledge that in the outside world people
went to school longer and that picture
making was one of the things they learned,
and one day he disappeared and was never
seen in town again. Afterward we heard
that he had tramped, barefoot, for two days
and nights through woods and swamps until
he turned up, half starved and utterly
exhausted, at the door of the great industrial
institute of a neighboring State. He had
come, he said, because he wanted to learn.
He was disappointed at not being allowed to
learn more about pictures, but he was taught
to read and write and figure better than
ever before. He learned something of
geography and history, too, and was given
a real room with a bed in it and his first
whole suit of clothes. In return for all
this he did & good deal of work of various
kinds, and in, the course of two or three
years learned a trade—masonry or plaster-
ing, I forget which. He used to wish that
they would let hint draw, but somehow non*
198
THE CRISIS
seemed to care whether he drew or not. Me
had heard of a boy in our town who had
gone to a Northern city and then abroad to
study picture making and this puzzled him,
but he decided that he had come to the wrong
kind of school and must lind the right one.
So when the institute turned him out with
a certificate and a trade, the big Northern
city was his goal and there it was I found
him again.
“Edgars hoodoo was a faithful kind. £
don’t believe it ever really let up on him.
When you believed it had, it had a way of
cropping up and fooling you, but the
nearest it ever came to it was during those
first weeks Edgar spent in the city. He
found work at his trade and it brought him
returns that seemed to him almost miracu-
lous, and he found pictures, the first he
had ever seen, and people who didn't seem
to hate him. This was perhaps the greatest
wonder of all to him.
“At first he spent his evenings in the
museum, hut when 1 ran across him he was
going to art school. When he was really
hungry lie worked at his trade during the
day. but when he was only moderately hungry
he preferred to spend all his time painting.
This sometimes brought the wrath of fore-
men down upon his head, but his head was
much too full of painting to mind. For the
first time in his life he was actually handling
colors and the joy of it almost intoxicated
him.
“In this way things went on for some
months and I believe Edgar was blissfully
happy. Then one day a philanthropist
offered a prize—a European scholarship—
for the best picture painted by a student in
one of the city’s schools. I was seeing a
good deal of Edgar in those days, and when
he showed me the announcement the same
thought leaped up in both our minds, only in
mine it took the shape, ‘Could Edgar?’
while in his eyes I read ‘I can,’ and looking
at him I suddenly experienced the old
heathen instinct, the superstitious desire to
placate the Gods because mortals are too bold
or too successful. If only Edgar weren’t
so confident, 1 thought, and my mind re-
verted apprehensively to the hoodoo, but
Edgar seemed to have forgotten it.
“There isn’t much more to tell. For six
months Edgar lived and worked and dreamed
only for the prize. It kept him from seeing
things in his life which even I could see;
the old distrust and dislike coming out in
people who had seemed friendly or indif-
ferent, the resentment and jealousy of some
of his fellow students—all those hideous
human qualities which this sweet-souled
creature seemed destined to bring out in
others and their more hideous results. But
Edgar, who had always seen and buried
what lie saw in the silent depths of his heart,
for once saw nothing; or rather he saw just
one thing—the picture he was painting as it
would be when finished. It was a scene from
home, a held he had worked in as a boy,
with a distant prospect of misty hills and
one or two toiling figures in the foreground.
“Then one morning I read in the paper
that the prize had been awarded. The
scholarship, it said, had been won by Edgar
Lewis for his picture ‘Winter in Alabama.’
The award, the account went on to say, was
strictly for merit. The contestants had sub-
mitted no names, merely numbers, and their
work had been passed on by three of the
nation's greatest painters. As I read, a great
sense of relief surged over me. Perhaps,
after all, the hoodoo was dead. I could
hardly wait to see Edgar. I ran to his room,
but could not find him. 1 waited a long time
and finally left a note asking him lo hurry
to my lodging.
“I waited all day and in spite of myself
something like fear began to stir in my
heart. That old superstition which I despised
even while it haunted me was like a ghost
that wouldn’t be laid. Then, very late, Edgar
came.
“At first he couldn’t speak, but long before
he could his face had told me all I needed
lo know. After a long while, between con-
vulsive gasps that shook all his strong young
body, he tried to tell me of his meeting with
the prize trustees. How it had been like
‘down home:’ how, somehow, the hoodoo had
sprung up again. How he had won—he was
sure he had won, he was dreadfully afraid
of my making a mistake on that point, for
it was his number and his picture, but when
they had seen him they’d said it was a mis-
take, and they were sorry—perhaps another
time. *	*	* They were polite to him, he
managed to say between gasps, but they’d
said—they’d said—and-then he broke down
and clung to me, shaking.
“I don’t think I ever felt the bitterness of
life as 1 felt it that night. For the first time
I had personally come up against what I’ve
called the shadow in which some of us are
doomed to live and the tragic helplessness
THE BURDEN
199
of those who stand by, whether they try to
lift it or nor. I wanted so to help him, to
give him some comfort, but there are things
for which there is no help.
**He left me at last, although I begged
him to spend the night, and went, reeling a
little, down the street. It was the last time
I ever saw him. What happened after that
I only guess: but his hoodoo was not napping
now and as far as I know it was this: That
in an alley near his home, as he was
stumbling blindly toward it, he ran heavily
into a woman—a girl—who was frightened
and screamed. Edgar never knew what
happened to him, I suppose, and if he had
he couldn’t have explained. The hoodoo
wouldn’t have let him.
“I fonnd him next morning in the morgue
with the mark of virtuous citizens’ boot
heels on his faee.”
Herrick’s gentle voice ceased suddenly.
There was a silence and then a long sigh as
the boys eased the tension of their
positions.
“But—but—trh 1/f ” Dane stammered sud-
denly. ‘‘What teas the hoodoo ? Didn’t you
ever find out ?"?
“But it is impossible/* Bobby objected.
“How could that happen to someone you
knew? You said he was a friend of yours.’'
••Things like that can’t happen without
some reason—not in America,” added
another boy.
By all the canons of bis art, Herrick’s
supreme moment had arrived. Were we not
waiting breathlessly, obviously mystified?
But be hardly seemed conscious of his
triumph, and in the fitful firelight his face
looked suddenly old and tired. After a
moment’s silence he turned to the last
speaker:
“Oh, there v<is a reason—Edgar was a
Negro—in America,” he said quietly.
THE BURDEN
COLORED MEN AND WOMEN LYNCHED
WITHOUT TRIAL.
Elysian Fields, Tex.—Two men; horse
stealing.
1885			 7S
1886			 71
1887			 SO
1888			 95
1889		
1890			 90
1891			 121
1892		
1893			 154
1894			 134
1895			 112
1S96			 80
1897			 122
1898			 102
1899		
Total
1900			 107
1901			 107
1902			 86
1903			 86
1904			 83
1905			 61
1906			 64
1907			 60
1908			 93
1909			 73
1910			 65
1911			 63
1912			 63
1913			 79
		2,662
Reported in January, 5.
Salem, Ala.—Carson; no offense named.
Paris, Tex.—Henry Monzon; murder.
Drew, Miss.—Man; party to a murder.
Wagoner County, Okla.—Man; rape.
Fulbright, Tex.—Richard Stanley; rape.
Reported in February, 7.
Houston, Miss.—Andrew Williams; murder.
••David Rucker; same crime, “by mistake.”
Drew, Miss.—Willis Webb; murder.
Marshall, Tex.—Anderson; murder.
•Barney, Ga.—George McDonald; disorderly
conduct
Reported in March, 7 (S?)
Cordelia, Ga.—Two men; murder.
•Lyrtis, La.—Preacher; debt of $10.
•Manning, S. C.—Boy; assault on a white
man.
•Andalusia, Ala.—James Green; shooting a
white woman.
Union City, Tenn.—John Gregson; murder. *
•West Point, Miss.—Henry Brown; at-
tempted murder.
•Clay City; Ky.—Man; murder (?).
Reported en April, S.
Mondak, Mont.—J. C. Collins; murder.
•Issaquena, Miss.—Man; murder.
•Albany, Ga.—Man; no apparent reason.
•Kosciusko, Miss.—Man; assault upon white
woman.
Marshall, Tex.—Man; assault upon a white
woman.
•Hickory, Mias.—Man; assault upon white
man.
200
THE CRISIS
'Pensacola, Fla.—Man; assault upon white
man.
Springfield, Miss.—Man; assault upon white
man.
Reported in May, 2.
Appling, Ga.—J. H. Moore; firing a pistol
and creating a disturbance.
'Hogansville, Ga.—Samuel Owensby ;
murder.
Reported in June, 7.
Harlem, Ga.—Man; drunkenness.
Newton, Tex.—Richard Galloway, attacking
a party of white men.
Anadarko, Okla.—Dennis Simmons ;
murder.
Hot Springs, Ark.—William Norman; rape
and murder.
Beaumont, Tex.—Man; murderous assault.
Americas, Ga.—William Redding, shooting
an officer.
Lambert, Miss.—William Robinson ;
murder.
Reported in July, 9.
Yellow River, Fla.—Roscoe Smith; killing
a sheriff.
Bonifay, Fla.—Man; rape.
'Reuben, Miss.—Man; murder.
'Milton, Fla.—Unknown; rape.
Blountsville, Fla.—Tempers; assisting a
criminal to escape.
Dunbar, Ga.—John Shake; wounding a
white man.
•Germantown, Ky.—Two men; no apparent
reason.
•Haines City, Fla.—Samuel White, at-
tempted rape.
Reported in August, 10.
Laurens, S. C.—Richard Puckett, at-
tempted rape.
Ardmore, Okla.—Franklin and. Ralston;
murder in disputes.
•Lexington, Mo.—George Winkfield; murder
and rape.
Kilgore, Ala.—Unknown; no 'apparent
reason.
Morgan, Ga.—Robert Lovett; murder.
•Birmingham, Ala.—Wilson Gardner, half-
witted ; frightening women and children.
Charlotte, N. C.—Joseph McXeely; shoot-
ing an officer.
Greenville, Ga.—Virgil Swanson; murder.
Jennings, La.—James Comeaux; attacking
an Italian merchant.
Reported in September, 10.
Little Rock, Ark.—Lee Simms; rape.
Tamma, 111.—Two unknown men; . mur-
derous assault.
Franklin, Tex.—William Davis; murder.
Louisville, Miss.—Henry Crosby; asking a
woman if her husband was at home.
Litchfield, Ky.—Joseph Richardson; rape.
Harriston, Miss.—Walter and William
Jones; murder.
'Akron, O.—Man; as a “last warning” to
leave the neighborhood.
'Bartow, Fla.—Man; assaulting a white
woman.
Reported in October, 3.
Hinchcliff, Miss.—Walter Brownloe; at-
tempted rape (proved innocent).
Monroe, La.—Warren Eaton; insulting a
white woman.
Cairo, 111.—Man; dispute with a merchant.
Reported in November, 6.
Wewoka, Okla.—John Cudjo; murder.
Dyersburg, Tenn.—John Talley; attempted
rape.
Hazlehurst, Miss.—Wilson Evans; attack-
ing a white girl.
Ocala, Fla.—Man found hanging from a
tree; no facts known.
‘Madison, La.—Man; assaulting a white
girl.
'Walton, Ga.—General Boyd; attempted
rape.
Reported in December, 4.
Blanchard, La.—E arnest and Frank
Williams; murder.
•Haleburg,	Ala.—Unknown;	attempted
rape.
•Tunica, Miss.—Albert Coopwood; murder.
•Campville, Fla.—Henry White; found in a
white person's house.
Total, 79; possibly 80.
For alleged attacks or attempted attacks
on women, 19, or 24 per cent.
•Lynching* not reported by the Chicago Tribune,
which is 'supposed to publish an . accurate summary.
A Little Pile of Books and Pamphlets
HEOUGH	the	patronage	of
Mrs. E.	H.	Harriman	a
study of heredity in the
skin color in persons of
white and Negro blood has
been made by Charles B.
Davenport, the well-known
authority	on	eugenics.	The	pamphlet	of
106 pages with plates has been published
by the Carnegie Institution of Washington.
The	studies are based principally	on
measurements in Bermuda and Jamaica and
acknowledgment is made “of the courtesy
with which our field worker was everywhere
received” by the courteous race!
The results of the study go far to sweep
away two ancient lies: one that white folk
may have a black child on account of a black
ancestor several generations away and
another that mulattoes are infertile. The
study says:
“This brings us to a matter of great social
moment to hundreds of our citizens, namely,
the possibility of a reversion in the off-
spring of a white-skinned descendant of a
Negro to the brown skin color. There is
even a current opinion that such an extracted
white, married to a pure-bred white, may
have a ‘black* child. This tradition has been
used to create dramatic situations in novels
and in newspaper ‘stories*; and the dread
of this tradition hangs over many a mar-
riage that might otherwise be quite happy.
In our studies no clear case of this sort has
been found, and our fundamental hypothe-
sis leads us not to expect it.**
And again: “At Jamaica I asked several
highly intelligent colored and white natives
if they knew of cases of ‘reversion* to black
skin color. All replies agreed in holding the
idea mythical. It was thought to have arisen
from the fact that two very light-colored
persons might be the parents of a medium-
colored child.**
As to the fecundity of mulattoes, the
report says:
“This matter has been considered recently
by Fisher, who finds that the number and
vigor of the hybrids of the Boers and
Hottentots has not suffered any decline.
There is no support in our data for the
notion of lack of fecundity of Negro-white
crosses, nor of their deficient viability.**
The pamphlet is tolerably free from
insulting terms and insinuations if we except
some nasty allusions from Louisiana on page
106. One conclusion is, however, character-
istic of American science:
“Recognizing the inadequacy of the aver-
age black African Negro to play a part in
our highly developed society, a natural
stigma has become attached to black skin
color. Our social distinctions are based on
that skin color; we have separate railway
cars and schools for ‘blacks* and ‘whites.*
Meanwhile, in consequence of hybridization
and segregation of characters, we have black-
skinned persons with straight hair, narrow
noses and, as is well known, with many or
all the inhibitions and educability of the
Caucasians. And, also (and this is of great
and increasing moment), we have white-
skinned persons not only with Negroid fea-
tures, but with that lack of inhibitors, that
absence of educability, that characterizes the
typical west coast African. From a social
point of view one may suggest that it had
been better for society had it been possible
to find some simple criterion of mental in-
feriority that is as conspicuous as skin color.
Then we could have separate cars and schools
for- the feeble minded without regard to skin
color.**
As a matter of fact there is not the
slightest scientific warrant for the sugges-
tion that the typical west coast African is
incapable of education, and this Mr. Daven-
port knows or ought to know.
a
Mr. W. P. Dabuey, of Cincinnati, col-
lected some data on this subject while fight-
ing the bill against race intermarriage before
the Ohio legislature. His pamphlet.of four-
teen pages, called “The Wolf and the Lamb,**
is not scientific, but has some interesting
comment and pictures.
s
Two other pamphlets by Dr. Louis P.
Moore, of Howard, and the Hon. Archibald
H. Grimk6 lie before us.
Moore’s pamphlet might be used as sup-
plementary reading in schools as a review
of Negro progress. Grimk6*s pamphlet,
202
THE CRISIS
“The Ballotless Victim of One-party
Governments/’ is an excellent argument to
show the inevitable results of disfranchise-
ment. When anyone argues that political
rights are not necessary to race advance, *
send him these eighteen pages of reason.
The pamphlet forms occasional paper No. 16
of the publications of the American Negro
Academy.
B
The volume of the American Academy of
Political and Social Science, entitled “The
Negroes’ Progress in Fifty Years,” is on
the whole a creditable publication. Its
twenty-four contributors include eleven
colored men, six Northern white men and
seven Southern white men. The little mono-
graphs are grouped in four parts; one
dealing with general statistics, one with
business and labor, one with social condi-
tions and the last with educational and
cultural conditions. The statistical part pre-
sents well-known figures. ' Kelly Miller
writes of professional and skilled occupa-
tions and R. R. Wright of unskilled labor.
Dr. Wright’s paper is especially inter-
esting, and emphasizes the fact that 'during
the last fifty years
1.	The race, then largely unskilled, has
developed more than a million semi-skilled
and skilled workers, business and profes-
sional men and women.
2.	The standard of the unskilled worker
has been raised.
3.	The unskilled worker has adapted him-
self to a system of wages as against the
system of slavery.
4.	The average of intelligence of un-
skilled labor has been greatly increased.
5.	Unskilled labor has become more
reliable.
6.	Negro labor has survived the com-
petition of the immigrant.
7.	The unskilled Negro laborer
migrated largely to the large cities.
8.	Unskilled labor has to a large extent
been the foundation on which Negro busi-
nesses, the Negro church and the Negro
secret society have grown up.
T. C. Walker’s paper deals with the State
of Virginia and his own county, where
Negroes have made such phenomenal ad-
vance in land holding.
James B. Clarke brings us the unusual
point of view of the foreign-born colored
man and concludes with tbis sentence:
“When the center of American interests is
transferred from considerations of race to
the recognition of those surer standards of
birth, education and ideals, by which alone
citizenship is to be adjudged, racial preju-
dice against the Negro and Negroid will
become as insignificant in Anglo-Saxon
America as it is rare in Latin-America.
Toward this end the Negro and the immi-
grant should strive by removing the barriers
of color and of mutual fear or distrust which
separate them, in order to make possible the
realization of the new and really United
States of North America, without which there
can be no union of all America.”
Thomas J. Edwards presents a ridicu-
lously favorable view of the Southern tenant
system. Professor Brough presents a rather
rhetorical case of “the Southern sons of
proud Anglo-Saxon sires” for a rational
study of the race problem.
Christensen has a sympathetic study of
Sea Island Negroes which shows decrease in
crime and increase in church support, edu-
cation and property holding.
Work shows that while Negro commitments
for crime are much higher than white com-
mitments, that the Negro rate is nevertheless
lower by considerable than that of foreign-
born Americans, such as Mexicans, Italians
and Austrians. Peonage and unfairness in
the courts are cited as part causes of Negro
commitments.
Mr. Ray Stannard Baker, because he has
“confidence not only in the sense of the white
man in the South, but in the innate capability.
of the Negro,” is quite willing to let present
suffrage conditions drift.
Dr. Haynes discusses segregation in cities.
Dr. S. B. Jones shows that the Negro death
rate is declining with that of the general
population, and Mr. Lichtenstein, the editor
of the paper, says that “the rapid reduction
has o,f Negro illiteracy from something above
95 per cent, to 30.4 per cent, in fifty years
of freedom, and constituting the largest ele-
ment in the diminution of illiteracy for the
United States as a whole, is a phenomenal
race achievement”
The most indefensible thing in the whole
volume is the twenty-two pages given to a
young Southern white man, Odum, in which
he tries to lay a foundation for separate
Negro schools in Philadelphia. As a piece
of scientific writing the paper is little lees
than silly.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
203
the crisis is the official organ of
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE
ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE
The Crisis was started under the NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
three years ago after it had called Dr. Du Bois from Atlanta Univer-
sity as Director of Publicity and Research. The NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION still publishes The Crisis. The Crisis is its mouth-
piece. Through it the ASSOCIATION speaks each month to
150,000	readers. From them it now seeks a reply.
You like The Crisis. Why not join the ASSOCIATION which
it represents?
The NATIONAL ASSOCIATION has 3,000 paying members,
80 per cent, of whom are colored. It wants 300,000. The NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION represents YOU. It fights YOUR battles.
Are YOU a member? If not, fill out and return this member-
ship blank.
MEMBERSHIP BLANK
I hereby accept membership in the NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE
ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE.
Please find enclosed_________dollars and enter my name as a member in Class
_______paying $__________a year, and send me THE CRISIS.

Address-------------.
Class 1. Donors, paying $100 to $500 per
year.
Class 2. Sustaining Members, paying
$25 per year.
Class 3. Contributing Members, paying
$2 to $10 per year.
Class 4. Associate Members, paying $1
per year.
The subscription to THE CRISIS iB $1 extra, foreign (including Canada) $1.25 .
extra, except to members paying $2, foreign $2.25, or more, who signify their wish
that $1, foreign $1.25, of their dues be considered, a CRISIS subscription.
All members in good standing have the privilege of attending and voting at the
Annual Meeting of the Association.
PLEASE MAKE CHECKS PAYABLE TO NATIONAL ASSOCIATION POB THE ADVANCEMENT OP
COLORED PEOPLE, 70 PIPTH AVENUE, NEW YORK CITY.
Mention Thk Cxiaxs
204
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
SCHOOL OF BEAUTY CULTURE AND HAIM DRESSING
Kelsey*■	Dressing Hair Grower, Scalp Tonic and Face Lotion hare no equal. Price, 60c each.
Guaranteed under Food and Druf Act, Jane SO, 1906.
KELSEYS
Telephone, Mornlngslde 8162
14S West IS 1st St.
NEW YORK
Manicuring, Shampooing. Hair Dreusing, Marcel Wee-
ing, Facial and Body Maaaage, Hair Making, Chiropody,
etc., scientifically taught. Unlimited practice in parlor
day and night. Pupils taught at home, if desired.
Diplomas. Special Summer Connie, 87.60 up. Send for
booklet. Mme. A. Carter Kelsey, Gon’l Inutr.; Dr. Bamnel
A. Kelsey, Chiropodist, President and Gon’l Manager.
MUTUAL TEACHERS’
AGENCY
Recommends teachers for schools; secures
employment for teachers. Blanks and
information furnished free on application.
1335 T Street, N. W. Washington, D. C.
Ho. 24 Southern Buggy
Highest Grade
A Value iliw|nil«i Sold on fi.oo
Profit Margin	Vmm
Factory to User
Write tor prices
and other styles.
Send for catalogue.
C. R. PATTERBO*
& SONS.
CreeaSsJS. OhU
Largest Negro Carriage concern In the United States.
WANTED—ONE MAW OB WOMAN IN EVERY
locality to start a Candy Kitchen. Best paying
small business on earth. Few dollars starts yon.
Get away from wage slavery. Write for particu-
lars. Native Herbarium Co., Ambler, Pa.
WANTED
500 Negro families (farmers preferred)
to settle on FREE Government Lands in
Chaves County, New Mexico. Blackdom is
a Negro colony. Fertile soil, ideal climate.
No “Jim Crow” Laws. For information
write
JAS. HAROLD COLEMAN
Blackdom -	-	. -	-	- New Mexico
$25.00 PER WEEK
may be made in commissions by parties handling
“History of Negro Soldiers in Spanish-American
War’’ combined with “History of the Negro Race.
400 pages, 50 illustrations. Price $1.25 net.
Address:	E. A. JOHNSON
164 Nassan Street................New York
REGALIA
$10 Business Course Only $1
Harvey L. Pittman, famous manufacturing chemist
and mail-order expert, is now manager of the United
Service Company and offer* their new course, con-
taining seventeen guaranteed formulas for making
perfumes, toilet and household preparations, with
complete instructions for making, for local or mail-
order salea, for only $L. This business pays big
money the year round. Send to-day for list and
valuable free information. Addreas:
THE UNITED SERVICE* COMPANY
618 Fifth Avenue. East -	Duluth. Minn.
Start a Mail Order Business aid Make Mraey
Yon can operate in your own home during spare
time. The parcel post has opened up the door* of
opportunity to YOU. Other* are moving g20 to
$500 a week. Why can’t yonf By our method
yon can start with $5 and up. We offer you thirty
live, money-making mail order plana. Yon can
make 96 cents profit on every doll ax order. We
furnish circulars, printed matter and place your
advertising at lowest rates. Send 10 cents for
complete outfit. Do It to-day—Now!
MATT. DEALERS WHOLESALE HOUSE
617 Dearborn Street	Chicago, HL
A Race Enterprise
Manufacturing Badges,
Banners and Supplies
for all Fraternal and
Church Societies. Cata-
logue upon request.
CENTRAL REGALIA CO.
Jo*. L. Jon©*, Pro*.
N. E. Cor. 8th and Pima Sts.
Cincinnati. Ohio
Cm©MED MEN
WANTED TO PREPARE AS
SLEEPING-CAR AND TRAIN
PORTERS.
No experience necessary. Por-
tions pay $65 to $100 a month.
Steady work. New York roads.
Passes and uniforms furnished when
--------- necessary. Write now.
RY. C. I., Dept. 19, Indianapolis, Ind.
JAMAICA THE BEST HOME SITE
this time of year. New 6 and 8-room ooUaces, well built, all improve-
$100 down aid $20 to $26 monthly. Immediate possession. Also
Unequalled values at
ments, title guaranteed,
small farms.
Jamaica is the biggest and most progressive town on Long Island; it has the second best
health record of any town in New York State; and it is less than twenty minutes from New
York City. Write for particulars.	______■	’
QUERNS REALTY COMPANY, Box 196, 32 DEWEY AVENUE. JAMAICA L. L
Mention Tax Caisr*
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
205
MILES M.
WEBB
Beautiful Colored Doll Free
Chicago’s Expert Photographer
I specialize in every phase of artistic picture
making. Send me your photos for enlargements.
Prices reasonable. Satisfaction guaranteed. ’Phone
6688 Douglass.
WEBB STUDIO
3619 State Street	Chicago, HL
The Loyal Knights and
Ladles of Malachites
is incorporated under the
laws of the District of Col
nmbia. Its object is to com
bias the Negroes of the
world for their mutual ad
van cement along indus-
trial and commercial lin
It also stands for the foil
enjoyment by the Negro of
his civil and political rights.
This movement is interna-
tional in its scope; wehave
lodges not only In the United 8tates but in
Jamaica, B- W. I» Colon, Bocas del Toro, Pan-
ama (Canal Zone) and Costa Rica. It is a dart
day for the Negro and he net cam a tngzth sr.
Race movements have failed because our peo-
ple were told that by contributing thereto the
race only would be Deoefited.but no tangible
iadivadaal benefits were offered. By ourjjlan
Grand SupruM
Govcraor
the member pays Me. par i
kin the.
elation and receives $4JM> per week aick kem-
efits aad $100 at death. We not only look
after the race but each individual member as
welL A big convention is soon to be held here.
We want a lodge in every village, hamlet and
town and a delegate to be sent to this conven-
tion. Orfaiditra wanted ■»asjwhara. For
full particulars, write	____
KNIGHTS OF MALACfOTES
L till Yon St. N. W. Washington. D. C. J
AGENTS WANTED—Big seller. $3 to $5 p«
day.. Costs you from 10 to 20 cants; sails for
35 cants and up. Sample free for . tha asking.
G. A. ALBUBT * OO., P. O. Box 414. Bristol. Pa.
This Negro doll has light
brown color, long black
hair, jointed limbs, sleep-
ing eyes. For selling our
artistic Negro post cards
and other beautiful cards.
Large assortment; very
cheap. Agents and deal-
ers are making big
money handling them.
Terms free. Sample of
all post cards sent post-
paid for 15 cents.
J. GRIFFITH
ART COMPANY
36-38 Beekman St.
New York
Was Jesns a Negro
with Woolly Hair?
Webb's books and pictures prove
it and show it by the Bible. A
picture, 12x18, of Jesus with
woolly hair, and Hia Holy Angels
at His second coming, and a book
with Biblical references, extending
from Genesis to Revelations, prov-
ing t&e fact. All for $1.50 and
postage prepaid. The book alone
Jamas Webb is worth its price.
The following are comments upon the same:
“I	beg	to	say, after hearing Elder Webb on
the subject, that the blood of the Negro coursed
through the veins of Jesns and Solomon. I am
frank to say that I have seldom, if aver, enjoyed
such	an	intellectual treat. The position he
assumed as the subject of his lecture touching the
Hametic blood and race is difficult and requires s
practical knowledge of Biblical and historical lore.
But I am pleased to say that he not only shows
himself an expert, but the master of the situation,
and I commend him to the ministry and churches
of our raoe of every denomination.”
Truly,
(Signed) Bishop H. M. TURNER.
•"I>e evidence submitted by Elder Webb tending to prove
the Saviour at —	was a	"<«" seems to be
sufficient to put those who oppose the proposition upon their
proof. Now that the chain of evidence presented by Mr.
Webb appears so complete. It .la strange that none at the
delvera in tha Blhttcal records nave not advanced the sensa-
tional proposition before. Not only was Christ s Negro,
but It seems that Salomon, who has been held tip th-wgh
all the ages as the pereonfnoaUoa of wisdom, had
blood In hla veins, also."—8settle "Daily Times."
Price $1.50 for picture and book. Send man ay
order or express order to James M. Webb, 8519
State Street, Chicago, ELL, in the care of the Webb
Studio.
WANTED—Colored carriage smiths,
woodworkers, trimmers and paint-
ers. Sober, experienced men only.
Address: THE CRISIS, 70 Fifth
Avenue, New York City.
Mention Tax Calais
206
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
LEGAL DIRECTORY
Residence 25-16 Michigan	Office Phone
Bell Phone E-2161	Home 58 Main
C.	H. CALLOWAY
Attorney and Counsolor-at-Law
Notary Public
117 W. 6th Street	Kansas City, Mo.
Toianhnnnc ■ (Central 104-W
Telephones. { Main 61
HARRY E. DAVIS
Attorney-at-Law	Notary Public
1607 Williamson Building -	-	- Cleveland, O.
Office L. D. Telephone 3297 Market
Residence L. D. Telephone 5277-M Market
GEORGE A. DOUGLAS
Counselor-at-Law
Rooms 613-614, Metropolitan Building
113 Market St., Cor. Washington, Newark, N.' J.
General Practice	Notary Public
WILLIAM R. MORRIS
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
1020 Metropolitan Life Building
Minneapolis................-	-	- Minn.
BROWN S. SMITH
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Offices:	Suite 610, Sykes Block
Minneapolis...........................Minn.
GEORGE W. MITCHELL
Attorney-at-Law
908 Walnut Street
Philadelphia.............................Pa.
Tel. 2026 Port Hill	Cable Address, Epben
EDGAR P. BENJAMIN
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
34 School Street ----- Boston, Mass.
Telephone Connection
W. Ashbie Hawkins	George W. P. McMechen
HAWKINS & McMECHEN
Attorneys-at-Law
21 East Saratoga Street -	-	- Baltimore, Md.
Phones: Office, Bell 4059; New 420-M
Residence, New 733-A
THOS. E. GREENE, JR.
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Notary Public
Maloney Block -	Youngstown, Ohio
William H. Austin	Edmund O. Austin
Law Offices of
AUSTIN & AUSTIN
St. Paul Building, 220 Broadway, Now York
Suite 7—H, I, J, K
Telephones: 7400, 5365, 5366 Cortlandt __
B.	F. BOOTH
Attorney-at-Law
67 N. Second Street
Memphis -	--	--	--	-- Tcnn.
PERSONAL CARDS
Telephone 5277 Morningside
DR. GERTRUDE E. CURTIS
Surgeon Dentist
188 W. 135th Street -	-	-	- New York City
Telephone Connection
R. W. FEARING
Electrician
Contracting, Repairing, Motors, Electric and
Gas Fixtures
Electrician rocent Emancipation Exposition in
New York
85 Marion Street -	Brooklyn, N. Y.
Telephone Columbus	3935	Open All	Night
RODNEY	DADE	&	BROS.
Undertakers and Embalmcrs
Notary Pnblic
Funeral Parlor and Chapel Free
Licensed Lady Embalmor	Prompt Service
266 West 63d Street	- -	-	-	New York	City
Between Broadway	and	8th	Avenue
MME. FANNIE BELLE DE KNIGHT
Dramatic and Dialect Reader. Engagements so-
licited. Students given special training in the
Dolsarte Method. Instruction also given in Dialect,
English Grammar and Rhetoric.
Terms Reasonable.
Telephone Morningside 9045
Studio: 231 W, 134th St._______Now York City
TANDY & FOSTER
Architects
1931 Broadway	New York
Telephone 5368 Columbus
H.	HENRY HARRIS
Architect
Corner 8th and Princess Streets
Wilmington ------ N. C.
WILLIAM L. BELL
Architect
138J4 Auburn Avenue - - Atlanta, Ga.
JUNIOR MECHANICAL DRAFTSMAN desires
position. Persistent, resourceful and efficient.
Reference. Address DRAFT, care of THE GRISTS.
J. E. ORMES
ACCOUNTANT
Audits	Systems
Business information by mail. Open for
engagements July and August
Box 25, Wilberforco University
Wilberforco, O.
FOR SALE— Colored restaurant
doing a first-class business of from
$30 to $50 per day. Excellent location,
not excelled in city. Address:
G.	W . REED
266 West 53d Street	New York City
Mention Tun Crisis
The Art of Printing
AS EXEMPLIFIED IN OUR WORK EMBODIES THE FOL-
LOWING POINTS OF MERIT:
( (a) Neat
1.	Stationery	■< (b) Attractive
( (c) Quality
f (a) Polite
2.	Form	•< (b) Business
( (c) Social
f (a) Artistic
3.	Workmanship •< (b) Correct
( (c) Prompt
We Print THE CRISIS
ROBERT N. WOOD, Printing and Engraving
202 EAST 99th STREET Telephone: Lenox 6667	NEW YORK
Homes in Long Island!
Few people realize the wonderful possibilities of Long Island
property, the rapid growth of that section of the city and its wonderful
future.
WE ARE SELLING GOOD HOMES IN CORONA, with all
improvements, only five cents carfare to New York. Corona is in the
very center of Greater New York, and in a few months will be reached
by the rapid transit lines of Manhattan, giving to the people of that
section of the city a five-cent carfare to any section of Manhattan.
The only place within thirty minutes of Times Square, Grand
Central Station or the Pennsylvania Station, where the man of small
means can get a modern home with all improvements at a moderate
cost. We would be glad to have you visit Corona at our expense.
Corona is one of the highest elevations in New York City, has an
excellent car service, good schools, excellent water supply and the best
place in all New York for children. For full particulars as to price
and terms address
L. S. REED & COMPANY
142 Hunter Avenue -	--	--	--	- Long Island City
Some choice investment lots for $50 on reasonable terms
Mention The Crisis
A Life of
NORRIS WRIGHT CUNEY
By
MAUD CUNEY HARE
(His daughter)
Would you like to read about a red-blooded man who was
one of the great leaders of Negro Americans? Would you like
to inspire your children with the life of this “Tribune of the
Black People”?
8vo; 250 pages. Postpaid, $1.50. Best terms to agents.
THE CRISIS PUBLISHING COMPANY
70 FIFTH AVENUE	NEW YORK CITY
HAZEL
The Story of a Little Colored Girl
By MARY WHITE OVINGTON
Author of “Half a Man”
Price $1.00 net. Postage prepaid, $1.08. For
sale through our agents and at The Crisis
office, as well as at leading book stores.
CRISIS PUBLISHING COMPANY
70 FIFTH AVENUE	NEW YORK CITY
Mention The Crisis.
‘The. National Religious Training School
(	“1 cordially commend the school’s interest and needs to all who believe \
? in the Xegro race and in our obligation to help promote its intellectual, i
c moral and religious uplift.”	('
C	—Rf.v. Dr. Charles H. Parkhurst, Xcw York City. (
IT IS MORE THAN A MERE SCHOOL
IT IS A COMMUNITY OF SERVICE AND UPLIFT
Its influence is destined to be felt in all sections of the country in improved
Negro community life wherever our trained workers locate.
Settlement workers, missionaries for home and foreign mission fields,
Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A. secretaries and district nurses receive a compre-
hensive grasp of their studies under a Wellesley graduate and experienced
co-workers and actual every-day practice through the school’s SOCIAL
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
We aim also to create a better qualified ministry.
Industrial training, advanced literary branches, business school.
Thirty-two acres; ten modem buildings; healthful location.
We can accommodate a few more earnest, ambitious students.
Communities requiring social workers should write us.
For catalog and detailed information address:
PRESIDENT JAMES E. SHEPARD
National Religious Training School -------- - Durham, N. C.
The school has no endowment fund and must raise a yearly maintenance
:ur.d of $15 000 for running expenses. Won’t you help us this year?
Provident Hospital and Training School
for Colored Nurses
Aim: To keep its technic equal to the best
Founded 1891
36th and Dearborn Sts., Chicago, III.
The first training school for colored
nurses in this country, Freedman’s
excepted.
Comprises a training school for
nurses, hospital, dispensary, and
thoroughly equipped children’s depart-
ment; when funds are ample, post-
graduate work may be undertaken.
The hospital is open to all. The
races co-operate in the board of
trustees, in tho medical staff and in
administration; the institution is the
only one of its kind in which a colored
man may act as interne.
Cost of buildings and equipment,
$100,000; free from debt. Endowment,
$50,000, contributed mostly by wills
made by colored men. Additional
endowment needed, $50,000.
The nurses’ course covers three
years; training and instruction given
by both races, according to the highest
modern standards.
Mention The Crisis.
THE CRISIS
A RECORD OF THE DARKER RACES
PUBLISHED BY THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE, AT 70 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK CITY
Conducted by
W. E. BURGHARDT DU BOIS
AUGUSTUS GRANVILLE DILL, Business Manager
Contents copyrighted, 1914, by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People
Contents for March9 1914
PICTURES
COVER. “The Mother.” Photograph from life.	Page
MRS. MAUD CUNEY HARE...................................... 216
70 FIFTH AVENUE........................................... 218
THE SOCIAL LIFE OF COLORED	AMERICA..................... 234
ARTICLES
UNIVERSAL BROTHERHOOD. A Poem. By Margaret von Seydewitz 226
ON SEGREGATION. A Poem. By Arthur Tunnell................. 226
THE ASSOCIATION OF NEGRO SECONDARY AND INDUSTRIAL
SCHOOLS. By Leslie Pinckney	Hill....................... 242
THE STRUGGLE. A Story. By Samuel H. Bishop........ 244
THE SMITH-LEVER BILL AND OTHER WORK OF THE
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE ............................... 247
THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT. By Justice	Wendell PhUlips Stafford. 251
DEPARTMENTS
ALONG THE COLOR LINE...................................... 215
MEN OF THE MONTH.......................................... 223
OPINION .................................................. 227
EDITORIAL ................................................ 238
SOME MORE BOCKS........................................... 253
TEN CENTS A COPY; ONE DOLLAR A YEAR
FOREIGN SUBSCRIPTIONS TWENTY-FIVE CENTS EXTRA
RENEWALS:	When a subscription blank is attached to this page a renewal of your
subscription is desired. The date of the expiration of your subscription will be found on the
wrapper.
CHANGE OF ADDRESS: The address of a subscriber can be changed as often as desired.
In ordering a change of address, both the old and the new address must be given. Two weeks’
notice is required.	*
MANUSCRIPTS and drawings relating to colored people are desired. They must be accom-
panied by return postage. If found unavailable they will be returned.
Entered as Second-class Matter in the Post Office at New York, N. Y.
212
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
Atlanta University
Is beautifully located in the City of Atlanta, Ga.
The courses of stndy include High School, Nor-
mal School and College, with manual training
and domestic science. Among the teachorB are
graduates of Yale, Harvard, Dartmouth, Smith
and Wellesley. Forty-two years of successful
work have been completed. Students come from
all parts of the South.' Graduates are almost
universally successfuL
For further information address
President EDWARD T. WARE
ATLANTA, GA.
Knoxville College
Beautiful Situation. Healthful Location.
The Best Moral and Spiritual Environment.
A Splendid Intellectual Atmosphere.
Noted for Honest and Thorough Work.
Offers full courses in the following departments:
College, Normal, High School, Grammar School and
Industrial.
Good water, steam heat, electric lights, good
drainage. Expenses very reasonable.
Opportunity for Self-help.
Fall Term Began September, 1913.
For information address
President R. W. McGRANAHAN
KNOX V IDLE, TENN.
The Agricultural and
Mechanical College
Maintained by the govern-
ments of North Carolina and of
the United States. Open all the
year round. For males only.
Spring term begins March 2,
1914. Board, lodging and tuition,
$7 per month. Best opportunities
for Negro youth. Night school
for indigent but ambitious young
men. For catalog or further
information, address
PRESIDENT DUDLEY
A. & M. College Greensboro, N. C.
LINCOLN INSTITUTE
Jefferson City, Missouri
Founded by the Negro soldiers of
the 64th and 65th Regiments. Sup-
ported by the State of Missouri.
One of the best-equipped schools
in the country for the education of
Negro boys and girls. Normal,
Collegiate, Agricultural and Indus-
trial Courses. Normal diplomas
carrying with them the degree B. Pd.
are life certificates to teach in the
public schools of Missouri. The
degree A. B. conferred upon those
who complete the collegiate course.
Four teachers of Music: Voice Cul-
ture, Piano. Violin. Band and
Orchestra Practice. Elocution and
Athletics.
Board $9.50 a month. Tuition $3.00 the
year to Miaaouri students. All others pay
$13.00 a year. Catalog free.
B. F. ALLEN, A. M.. LL. D.
President.
Morehouse College
(Formerly Atlanta Baptist College)
ATLANTA, GA
College, Academy, Divinity School
An institution famous, within .recent years
for its emphasis on all sides of manly
development—the only institution in the far
South devoted solely to the education of
Negro young men.
Graduates given high ranking by
greatest Northern universities. Debating,
Y. M. C. A., athletics, all live features.
For information address
JOHN HOPE, President.
ST. MARY’S SCHOOL
An Episcopal boarding and day school
for girls, under the .direction of the Sisters
of St. Mary. Address:
THE SISTER-IN-CHARGE
611 N. 43d St.	W. Philadelphia, Pa-
CARNEGIE COLLEGE-HOME STUDY
“60 PAGE BULLETIN FREE”
COURSES BY MAIL
Grammar School Agricultural
High School Poultry
Norma	Domestic Science
Profession* Civil Service
Penmanship Engineering
Type-writing Drawing
Short-hand	English
Book-keeping Language
Law	Real Estate
Reduced rates of tuition to first
applicants. For “'Free Bulletin”
and ''Special Scholarship.” apply
CARNEGIE COLLEGE
No. 10D St.. EOGEBS. Ohio.
Mention The Crisis
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
213
Atlanta University
Studies of the
Negro Problems
17 Monographs	Sold Separately
Address:
ATLANTA UNIVERSITY CONFERENCE
Atlanta University, Atlanta, Ga,
The Curse of Race Prejudice
By James F. Morton, Jr., A. M.
Ad aggressive exposure by an Anglo-Saxon
champioD of equal rights. Startling facts and crush-
ing arguments. Fascinating reading. A necessity
for clear understanding and up-to-date propaganda.
Belongs in the library of every friend of Bocial
justice. Price 25 cents. Send orders to
JAMES F. MORTON, JR.
244 West 143d Street -	-	- New York, N. Y.
“HEAVEN AND HELL”
Swedenborg’s great work; 400 pages: 15 cents,
postpaid. Pastor Landanberger, Windsor Place,
St. Louis, Mo.
RELIABLE, LIVE,
RESPONSIBLE MEN
who can sell real estate can MAKE MORE
than $200 PER MONTH acting as
AGENTS for the sale of our properties in
MUSKOGEE and TAFT, OKLAHOMA.
The real coming country where there are
opportunities and openings for all. Write
us to-day, giving your age and experience,
and we will offer you a FINE PROPOSI-
TION WHICH WILL MAKE YOU
MONEY. Address
REEVES REALTY CO.
Department C
217 Flynn-Ames Bldg. Muskogee, Okla.
DO YOU ADVERTISE?
If you want to bring your business to the
attention of 150,000 discriminating readers
advertise in THE CRISIS. Advertising
rate cards will be sent on application.
The Crisis
70 Fifth Avenue -	- New York
A COLORED DOLLY FOR THE CHILD
Buy a beautiful colored doll, with lifelike features, long hair, jointed limbs and sleeping
eyes. The right* plaything for your child. A big attraction at church fairs and bazaars.
Endorsed by leading clergymen and educators. Send for catalog. Agents wanted. Novelty
souvenirs and favors.
E. M. S. NOVELTY COMPANY, Dept. A., JAMAICA, N. Y.
There is a field and a future
for the expert stenographer, type-
writer and secretary.
• Take a course in the
fffattUg (Emmnrrrial
Jnatitutr
526 Lenox Avenue
New York City
(Telephone 3655 Audubon)
Lessons $5 per month or $50 for
a complete course in
Shorthand
Typewriting
Arithmetic
English
Students prepared for civil
service examinations.
F. Walter Mott ley, Principal
BBS OFFER
VERY SPECIAL!
YOU’LL be surprised
when you get our
offer of a suit of
swellest style and won-
der—“How can
they do it!” It
is all explained
| i n a personal
letter to you.
New, liberal
I plan. No trouble
| — no expense.
Every garment
made to mens-,
ore. You pick’
the style and
fabric. Express
prepaid —on eve ry-
thing — not a cent
to pay. Agents coin-
ing money. Send no
money but write
quick while special
offer lasts, for Bl*
Wonderful Offer
and heavy sample
outfit-all FREE!
American Woolen Mills
Deptui	CHICAGO. ILL.
Mention The Crisis
214
THE CRISIS
ADVERTISER
OF INTEREST TO VOCAL STUDENTS
TONE-PLACING AND
VOICE- DEVELOPMENT
Points explained, viz.: Breath
In Singing, Trying the Voice, the
Soprano, the Mezzo-Soprano, the
Contralto, Tenor Leggiero or High
Tenor, the Barltono, the Bass,
Parts of the Vocal Apparatus, the
Mouth, the Tongue, Position When
Practising, Position Whon Singing,
How to Practice, Good Buies for
Singing.
Comment from the world-renowned conductor of
the PauliBt Choir of Chicago, 111., whoBo choir has
just received the first prize awarded at the Sing-
ing Contest held in PariB on May 25, 1912:
"Dear Mr. Tinsley:
"I take great pleasure in commending your Tory useful and
succinctly written book on Tone-Pianino and Volos-Devolop-
neat.' Tour own appreciation of the psychology of singing
and the fundamental principle* of the art you have cleverly
reduced to a aim pie system.	Cordially youra.
"Father WILLIAM J. FINN, C. 8. P..
Director Paullst Choristers of Chicago."
From "Musical Courier," N. Y.: "A very practical little
book Is ‘Tone-Plaolng and Voloe-Devolopment/ by Pedro T.
Tinsley. It contains some very excellent material and vocal
exercises, and should be In the hands of all vocal students."
From "Music News," Chicago, HL: "Accordingly his
‘Practical Method of Singing’ Is a most concise and practical
little manual, containing many valuable vocal exercises. It
cannot fall to be helpful to all ambitious vocal students."
HELPED HIM GREATLY
“Since I practised your exercises of ‘Tone-Placing
and Voice-Development’ my voice is more resonant
than it has been for years. It seems to me that I
am getting a new voice.” Prof. John T. Layton,
Director Coleridge-Taylor Musical Society, 1722 10th
St., N. W., Washington, D. O.
PRICE $1.00
Address the publisher: PEDRO T. TINSLEY
6448 Drexel Avenue	CHICAGO, ILL.
Anyone In the "Brass Band" or "Stringed Orchestra" may
learn In a few hours to master the Instrument he loves with
our "Sight Bender" and "Sight Reader Positions."
$1 (cash). Address
WILLIAM D. SMITH
1636 Clarion Street.....................Philadelphia, Pa.
Agents Are Making S10.00 Per Day
and more selling our famous Negro picture, “A
Joyful Welcome Into Heaven,” the finest painting
ever produced with the Negro as a subject. Semi-
religious. Sells at sight. Send 15 cents in stamps
or coin for 50-cent sample and agent’s terms.
THE DOUGLAS SPECIALTIES COMPANY
3548 Vernon Ave.	Dept. K	Chicago, 111.
WANTED
Agents for The Crisis. Dignified
work. Address: 70 Fifth Avenue,
New York.
Facts ot Reconstruction
By MAJOR JOHN R. LYNCH
In this book Major Lynch presents the
readers and thinkers of the present genera-
tion with accurato, reliable and impartial
information, based upon his knowledge atad
experience, about Reconstruction, tho most
important and eventful epoch in our country’s
history.
Major Lynch has been prominently before
tho public during the last forty years. He
was a member of Congress in 1876-7 and
was an active participant in tho decision of
the closely contested election between Hayes
and Tilden for the Presidency of the United
States. Many interesting points in that cou-
test not heretofore published will bo found
in this book.
As a member of Congress, member of the
National Republican Committee, auditor for
the Navy Department, a member of many
National Republican Conventions, over one of
which he presided as temporary chairman,
Major Lynch was brought in contact with
many of the most prominent and influential
men of the country. The chapters giving an
account of his interviews with Presidents
Grant and Cleveland, and with Messrs. Blaine,
Lamar and Gresham, are both interesting and
instructive. The book ought to be in the
library of every home.
Price, net $1.60. By mail, $1.66.
Address:
MAJOR JOHN R. LYNCH
4321 Forestville Ave.	Chicago, 111.
il^kADay
TiM u for your
iv# SPARE TIME
AGENTS WANTED
Hundreds of our agents are making 510 n day in
their sparo time. Many are beating that and aro
getting their own clothes FREE. Wo aro dead
euro you can do it. Such a thing as failure is
•utterly impossible with our new and complcto
outfit which we send you—all charges prepaid.
- l?r i n,° *jno °f stylish, well made, carefully fin-
ished clothes, guaranteed fit—boats ovorythlng
ever offered. Lowest prices. Our Outfit is magnif-
icent—our styles and fashions simply wonderful.
Strong selling plans that bring tho orders and
Big Monoy for you every week, in hard cash.
Pants $2SI Suits $9!?
Can you beat it? Bo a PROGRESS agent. Earn
to 510 a day In your spare timo while doing
other work. Send no money. Everything is FREE.
No experience necessary. Get tho Outfit, order
planks,;stationery, tape-lino and everything necessary
to start you in a Big Monoy Making Business o
your own. Wnte today. Bo ready for the larges
opring business ever known. Land tho early
orders in bunches.
Progress Tailoring Co.. Dept. 082 .Chicago
Mention The Crisis
THE CRISIS
Vol. 7—No. 5	MARCH, 1914	WWc No. 41
EDUCATION.
T N public school No. 3, Brooklyn, N. Y.,
Miss Rosa Taylor, a colored girl, com-
pleted the course iu six and one-half years (a
thing which has not been done since the
founding of the school 250 years ago), and
took the bronze medal in the spelling bee.
Iu the same school Miss Marion Alien,
a daughter of Mrs. William Trotman, took
the silver medal for proficiency in German
at the midyear promotion. There were 108
pupils in the class and eighteen of them
were of German descent. The silver medal
was the highest honor and was given by
the German-American National Bund. The
German gentleman who presented the medal
nearly lost his breath when he saw the
little colored girl of 14 years who took it.
These two were the only prizes offered and
they were taken by the only two colored
pupils in the class. The audience of 5,000
roared in applause.
<1 The Wake (N. C.) county board of
public instruction has appropriated $6,000
for a training school for colored teachers
to be located at Method, N. C.
<3 A complete system of student government
has been established at Walden University
in Nashville, Tenn.
<3 The Negro Teachers’ Association and
School Improvement League of Virginia
collects each year statistics of money raised
for school improvement in various counties.
In 1912 the colored people themselves
raised more than $15,000 and in 1913 the
amount raised was almost $25,000.
<3 The students of Rust University in New
Orleans raised $1,050 as a jubilee offering
for the Freedmen’s Aid Society.
A twenty-one-room public-school building
worth $50,000 is being erected in Savannah,
Ga., for colored children.
<3 Leonard Medical School in Raleigh, N. C.,
will soon have a new modern laboratory
to take the place of the one which burned
recently.
•<I Hampton University teachers and stu-
dents celebrated Founder’s Day on Febru-
ary 1. Dr. Stephen S. Wise, the rabbi of
the Free Synagogue in New York City,
made the address in commemoration of
Gen. Samuel Chapman Armstrong.
MUSIC AND ART.
' I ’ HE splendid art of Mr. Harry T.
Burleigh is again revealed in the
arrangement of sixteen of the Afro-
American folksongs which Mr. Henry E.
Krehbiel, the well-known music critic of
New York, uses as illustrations in his new
work on national music, “Afro-American
Folksongs.” Mr. Krehbiel declares that
the Negro folksongs are beautiful aud, as
shown by Dvorak, they can furnish the
inspiration to the composer who knows how
to employ them. He adds that it was the
singing of the jubilee singers of Fisk Uni-
versity which introduced him to the subject
and caused him to begin his observations
forty years ago.
<1 A number of the folksongs have been
arranged for men’s voices and performed
MBS. MAUD OUNEY HABE, PIANI8T, AUTHOB AND EDITOB OF THE CBI8IS MUSIC NOTES,
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
217
by the Mendelssohn Glee Club of New York
under the direction of the distinguished
choral conductor, Arthur Mees.
<3 Musical America states that “Roland
Hayes, tenor, and Anne Cambridge, soprano,
both pupils of the Hubbard Studio of
Boston, sang with splendid success in a
recent performance of ‘Gallia’ and ‘The
Seven Last Words of Christ,’ at North-
field, Mass. Mr. Hayes was again heard
in a recital in Boston on January 29—
his farewell appearance before a winter
concert tour.”
<3 Miss Jessie E. Muse, the young lyric
soprano'of New Haven, Conn., who gradu-
ated with honors from the Yale Conserva-
tory of Music, made her first concert appear-
ance in Boston, Mass., at Steinert Hall, on
January 30. Miss Muse showed high
musical sensibility in the use of her voice,
which is well trained and of a beautiful
quality. She was assisted by Mr. W. H.
Richardson, baritone, and Mr. Frederick
White, pianist and accompanist. Miss Muse,
a talented young student of piano, accom-
panied her sister. For over twenty years
Mr. White has held the position of organist
at Trinity M. E. Church, one of the large
white churches of Charleston, Mass.
<3 The Washington Concert Orchestra (Mr.
Harry A. Williams, conductor) gave its
initial concert in January at Howard Thea-
tre, Washington, D. C. The program was
one of unusual excellence.
Mr. R. Augustus Lawson, distinguished
pianist and teacher, of Hartford, Conn.,
gave a piano recital under the direction
of the music department of Fisk University,
Nashville, Tenn., on January 2.
Mr. Joseph Douglass, violinist of Wash-
ington, D. C., was heard in a recital at
Fisk Memorial Chapel on January 30. Mr.
Donglass is on a concert tour, which includes
a number of principal cities of the South.
<1 The colored pupils of the high school of
Temple, Tex., have by their own efforts
recently purchased a set of band instru-
ments for the use of the school brass band.
<3 On January 10, at Springfield, Mass.,
St. John’s Congregational Church gave their
first concert for the benefit of the pipe-
organ fund, at which time they presented
Mrs. Maud Cuney Hare, pianist, and Mr.
W. H. Richardson, baritone, of Boston,
Mass. Of the recital the Springfield Re-
publican said: “The church was so packed
that it was necessary to throw open the
room at the side of the main auditorium.
•	•	• The singing of Mr. Richardson
and the piano selections by Mrs. Hare were
both of the highest quality and drew forth
the repeated applause of one of the most
discriminating audiences that has ever
assembled in ^he church.”
<3 On December 17 a symphony concert was
given by the Victorian Concert Band, con-
ducted by Clarence Cameron White. Mr.
Charles H. Sullivan, the organizer and
manager, formed this orchestra in 1906, with
only six members, and now the orchestra
numbers thirty. The Metronome says:
“The program presented at the above occa-
sion was a very ambitious one and the
manner in which it was rendered would
have been a credit to any orchestral organi-
zation.” A second concert will be given in
April.
<J The musical director of the public schools
of Providence, R. I., has appointed a col-
ored girl, Ruth Harrison, to play the piano
at the regular music period in the English
high school. The eight other contestants
were white girls.
PERSONAL.
T7AN J. DAVIS, a colored physician, has
^ been appointed assistant city physi-
cian in Paducah, Ky.
CJ William J. Williams, a colored man, has
been elected chairman of the board of
aldermen of Chelsea, Mass.
<3 So far as is known, John D. Jones,,
assistant ticket agent at Readville, Mass., .is;
the only colored man holding such a position-
He began in the company’s employ as ai
porter.
<3 Col. John R. Marshall, of the Eighth
Infantry of the Illinois National Guard, has
resigned. Major Franklin A. Dennison
succeeds him.
<3 R. H. Becky and R. L. Carroll, of Wash-
ington, D. C., who were formerly patrol-
men, have been appointed detectives.
<3 A young colored woman, Miss Agnes
Halsell, has been appointed organist of a
white church in Salem, Ore.
<3 John Bryce, a private in the Tenth
Negro Cavalry, was seriously wounded in
Texas by Mexicans.
218
THE CRISIS
<1 The offices of the National Association foi
the Advancement of Colored People and of
The Crisis are now at 70 Fifth Avenue;
this is a cut of the building. We are on the
fifth floor, suites 518 and 521.
SOCIAL UPLIFT.
r 1*HE Framing-ton (Mass.) Historical and
A Natural History Society will erect a
tablet to mark the speakers* stand on the
former site of old Harmony Grove, where
so many abolitionists pleaded for the free-
dom of the slaves.
Q Miss Luna M. Scott, a colored business
woman of Milwaukee, Wis., is the first
woman in the State to be commissioned by
the governor as a notary public.
Q Mrs. Susie Brighter, a white woman of
Atlantic City, N. J., bequeathed $200,000 to
Levi A. Taylor, a colored farmer of New-
ark, Del., who was for some time in her
employ. It is- said that Mr. Taylor will
establish a home for colored boys near
Wilmington.
The Frederick Douglass Home for Aged
Colored Men in Providence, R. I., was
opened on January 20. The home accom-
modates about ten inmates.
The Knights of Pythias will erect a
more modern bathhouse and sanatorium in
Hot Springs, Ark., on the site of the old
one which was destroyed by the recent fire.
Colored publications will be on exhibi-
tion at the international exhibition for the
book industry and the graphic arts to take
place this year in Leipzig, Germany.
Veassus Pope, a young colored man,
made the highest average of any applicant
ifi the State of Minnesota in a recent exam-
ination in Minneapolis for the railway mail
service.
Q Pullman porters who are 70 years old
and have been in the service as long as
twenty years will be pensioned. The mini-
mum pension will be $15 per month.
<J The Negro Farmer, a journal for the use
of colored farmers, published at Tuskegee,
Ala., has sent out the first issue.
CJ Negro physicians, pharmacists and den-
tists of Omaha, Neb., have organized a
medical society. When a colored physician
in Omaha has a colored patient who must
be treated in a hospital he must turn the
patient over to a white doctor because he
is excluded from practice in the hospitals.
70 FIFTH AVENUE.
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
219
The medical association will attempt to
remedy this and other injustices.
Q Recently the State of Virginia appro-
priated to the Virginia School for Colored
Deaf and Blind $28,000 and $4,600 yearly
for improvements.
<J Ernest Chambers, a graduate of the West
Virginia Colored Institute, won the prize
of $100 for the best acre of corn grown in
1913 in the State corn-growing contest of
Missouri.
A new Y. M. C. A. building for colored
people in Philadelphia has recently been
finished.
<J Preston Taylor, a colored minister of
Nashville, Tenn., has pledged $5,000 to
build a hospital in Liberia.
<J The Provident Hospital of St. Louis,
Mo., is carrying on a campaign to raise
$30,000 in order to build a more commo-
dious and modern structure. It was to this
hospital, and not to the Chicago hospital,
that the late Adolphus Busch gave $5,000.
<1 A charter has been granted by the State
corporation commission for an Industrial
Home School for Wayward Colored Girls
to be located at Hampton, Va.
J. R. Coffy, a colored man of Wewoka,
Okla., made the highest average of any
applicant from Oklahoma in the depart-
mental clerk examination of the civil
service. There were more than a hundred
applicants from Oklahoma.
<3 Of 133 colored dining-car men on
the New York, New Haven and Hartford
Railroad examined for health and
cleanliness only one failed to pass the
examination.
MEETINGS.
’’ 11 HE national convention of the Alpha
A Phi Alpha Fraternity met in its sixth
annual session at Howard University, Beta
Chapter, Washington, D. C., December
29-31. The fraternity will soon have an
official organ, The Sphinx, edited by Ray-
mond W. Cannon, with Julius McKelvie as
business manager.
<3 The State Association of Colored Teach-
ers of Virginia met in Alexandria on
February 26-27.
<3 Odd Fellows from various parts of the
country met in Philadelphia recently in the
semi-annual session of the subcommittee of
management of the Grand United Order of
Odd Fellows.
<3 The National Association of Colored
Editors met in Nashville, Tenn., February
13 and 14.
^ The annual meeting of the directors of
the Jeanes Negro Rural School Fund met
in New York City in January. Reports
showed that $34,262 had been paid in
teachers’ salaries by the fund.
*3 The sixth annual meeting of the Negro
Race Conference was held in Columbia,
S.	C., February 18-20.
Q The Sunday-school congress of the
national Baptist convention will meet in
Beaumont, Tex., in June.
<3 Colored Masons of Michigan held their
annual convention in Kalamazoo on
January 27.
<3 The forty-ninth annual session of the
Louisiana African Methodist Conference
met in Lake Charles on January 28.
<3 The Alabama State Association of Col-
ored Teachers will meet in Birmingham,
Ala., next month.
ECONOMICS.
rTy HE colored Masons of Florida have a
**• .new $100,000 temple.
<3 The Mechanics’ Savings Bank and Trust
Company will soon be opened in Nashville.
This will be Nashville’s third colored bank.
<3 The Institute Building and Land Com-
pany, a corporation of ten colored men, has
recently been organized at Charleston,
W. Va., with a capital of $20,000. This
corporation will do real-estate business in
Charleston and in Institute, W. Va.
<3 Anderson R. Abbot, a colored physician
of Toronto, Canada, died, leaving an estate
worth $61,000.
<3 Fred. J. Douglass, a colored man of
Topeka, Kan., has been granted a patent
for a slide valve to be used on steam
engines.
<3 The North Carolina Mutual and Provi-
dent Association began in 1899 with a
business of $S40, and in 1913 did $300,000
worth of business.
Several colored men, under the name of
the Melbourne Company, will open a new
colored hotel in Boston.
220
THE CRISIS
*1 The Alabama Penny Savings Bank in
Birmingham, AJa., declared a dividend of
8 per cent, at the annual meeting of
stockholders.
The State corporation commission of
Virginia has granted a charter to an
organization of colored men in Portsmouth
permitting them to do a banking business
with a capital stock of not less than $10,000.
Negroes have opened a mattress factory
in Knoxville, Tenn. The factory supplies
many leading white and colored furniture
dealers in Knoxville and through the South.
<1 Major Taylor, a bicycle rider of Wor-
cester, Mass., has invented an automobile
tire which is said to be cheaper and more
satisfactory than the tires now in use. A
leading firm of Worcester furnished money
for the road test, and the tires proved so
satisfactory that a company has been organ-
ized for the purpose of manufacturing and
selling them.
Q The citizens of Miami, Fla., are carrying
on a campaign for deep water in the
harbor, and the colored citizens, unsolicited,
have pledged themselves to raise $10,000.
<1 A company of colored citizens* in
Raleigh, N C., have been granted a charter
and expect to open a bank very soon.
<1 Mr. J. S. Groves, a colored farmer in
Kansas, is considered the “potato king” of
that State. In 1912 he raised 55,000 bushels
of potatoes on 320 acres.
THE COURTS.
w | * HE “Jim Crow” law of Oklahoma has
■** been upheld by the United States
Circuit Court of Appeals. The Federal
District Court previously upheld the law
and stated that the railroad company would
not be compelled to furnish Pullman cars
for Negroes if there was not a sufficient
demand.
<1 Charles Lanier of Newark, N. J., is suing
the Newark Theatrical Company for $5Q0
damages because he and his wife were
refused admission to the main auditorium of
the Odeon Theatre in Newark.
Q William Young, a Negro, charged with
assault upon a 14-year-old white child, has
been acquitted in the Superior Court of
Georgia.
Miss Wilma Shackleton is suing a res-
taurant owner in Brooklyn, N. Y., for
drawing the color line.
It is reported that Judge Risinger has
been upheld by the Court of Appeals in the
First Judicial District of Dayton, O., in his
decision that the colored Elks of that State
cannot use the symbols, insignia and badges
used by white Elks.
The United States Supreme Court de-
cided on January 30, 1913, that the action
of the Supreme Lodge, Knights of Pythias,
•in revoking the charter of the Grand Lodge,
Knights of Pythias of Virginia, in August,
1913, was unconstitutional and unlawful.
Q Benjamin Jones and Fannie Guatier
brought suit against the Berlin Realty Com-
pany of Los Angeles, Cal,, because the com-
pany refused to sell them property on
account of color. Judge J. W. Shenk de-
clared that race-restriction clauses in prop-
erty deeds were illegal and handed down a
decision against the realty company.
THE GHETTO.
HT* HE mayor of East Orange, N. J.,
vetoed the appointment of F. J.
Sullivan as policeman because Sullivan’s
average in the civil service was not the
highest, as the board of police commission-
ers claimed. George Williams, a colored
man, was said to have the* highest average.
Later, however, the police commissioners
unanimously overrode the mayor’s veto,
claiming that George Williams did not have
the highest but the lowest average.
^ Two white ministers of Cassville, Mo.,
endeavored to stop the young people of
their congregations from attending a New
Year’s dance by appealing to their race
prejudice. They distributed circulars pro-
testing against the importation of a colored
orchestra to play for the dance. The dance
was largely attended.
The St. Louis Choral Symphony Orches-
tra gave a free festival at the Coliseum in
St. Louis, and advertised that there would
be absolutely no distinction made between
poor and rich. The colored people, how-
ever, were compelled to enter the hall
through a rear entrance.
®l C. W. Hill, the principal of a public
school in Mobile, Ala., has been informed
by the board of school commissioners of
Mobile County that he must give up his
position if he continues to edit the “Negro
Social” section of the Mobile Post. The
chairman of the board gave as the reason
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
221
for this decision the fact that Mr. Hill
was advertising his position in his news-
paper work and was conducting a Negro
social page in a paper published by white
men for white people.
<1 Discrimination in the Central Railroad
restaurant at Communipaw Avenue station
in Jersey City, N. J., has been discontinued
chiefly through the efforts of the committee
of one hundred of colored men in Jersey
City.
It is reported that segregation of rail-
road clerks in Virginia and North Carolina
has taken a new form. The colored clerks
are being transferred to night trains and
the white clerks to day trains.
Q Thomas Dixon’s play, “The Leopard’s
Spots,” was recently prohibited from play-
ing in Florence, Ala. A number of colored
citizens protested to the mayor, who prom-
ised that the play should not be given and
warned Dixon that every actor would be
arrested if they attempted to play. In spite
of this warning Dixon sent out circulars
announcing that the play would be put on.
The mayor ordered the theatre closed on the
evening that the company was booked to
appear and there was no performance of
“The Leopard’s Spots.”
<1 The National Biscuit Company no longer
employs Negroes.
Seven native laborers were killed and
thirty-six wounded in a fight between
natives and white people in the diamond
mines of Jagerfontein, South Africa. The
trouble arose over a dispute concerning the
death of Basuto, a native, which was
claimed to be the result of a kick from a
white man.
<1 Hyattsville, Md., has passed a segrega-
tion ordinance.
<1 The colored people of Louisville, Ky.,
have obtained a half victory from the
manager of the National Theatre in that
city. Instead of a back entrance and seats
in the gallery only, they will hereafter use
the street entrance and have accommodation
in the first balcony.
Recently Judge N. H. Stewart, of the
Circuit Court of Kalamazoo, Mich., refused
to appoint attorney E. J. Marshall, a col-
ored man, counsel for a white woman to
free her son. He said that unless the
woman could find a white lawyer he would
not hear the case.
Sheldon Vanderburgh, in spite of the
neighbors’ belief that he would not “dese-
crate the neighborhood,” sold his home in
Hastings-on-the-Hudson, N. Y., to a colored
real-estate dealer in order to spite his
neighbors. The dealer claims to have
bought it for one of his clients who will
use it for a roadhouse.
<J The colored people of York, Pa., have
succeeded in having two electric signs,
“Colored Bar” and “Colored Ladies’ Dining
Room,” removed from the Liverick Hotel.
<1 Mrs. Lee Terrell, a colored woman of
Beaumont, Tex., was riding alone in a
“Jim Crow” car en route to Pauhuska, when
the trainman put about thirty drunken white
men in the car. Mrs. Terrell complained
to the conductor of their insults and was
ushered by him into the baggage car, where
she was compelled to remain until the end
of her trip or else suffer the insults of the
party of drunken mien.
The lower house of the South Carolina
general assembly has passed the Fortner
bill, and it is now before the senate. The
bill prohibits white teachers from teaching
in colored schools, white nurses from hav-
ing colored patients and prohibits “intimacy
of the races in houses of ill-repute.”
<J The members of the Carpenters’ Union
of Mobile, Ala., objected strenuously to the
employment of a colored foreman on the
new Citronelle school building to be erected.
A delegation protested to the school board
and received promises that the board would
investigate. It is reported, however, that
the colored man became frightened and left
town.
<J At a mass meeting in the Harlem branch
of the Y. M. C. A., called by a committee
of thirty, the Harlem Property Owners’
Improvement Association was formed for
the purpose of preventing Negroes from
coming into Harlem to live.' The organ-
izers -will incorporate the association as'soon
as $100,000 of stock is pledged, but just
what methods will be taken has not yet
been stated.
•I At the Temple of Creation in New York
City a series of pictures, “The Photo Drama
of Creation,” is being given. At the en-
trance of the church is this sign: “Seats
Free! No Collection! Free to Both Rich
and Poor!” And yet the colored people
222
THE CRISIS
who have attended the church claim that
in each case they were directed to a side
door which led to the top gallery.
<3 A special class of colored students was'
formed in public school No. 1 in Paterson,
N. J., covering four grades, and in charge
of Miss Fannie Lowe, the only colored
teacher in the school. It seems that this
class was formed so that Miss Lowe, who
stood highest in the examinations, might
have an opening and still not teach white
pupils, for now that Miss Lowe has resigned
the class is disbanded.
*3 Representative Frank Clarke, of Florida,
asked the governor of his State to call a
special meeting of the Florida legislature
to enact a law that would prohibit Japanese
and “people of like races” from owning land
within the State.
<3 Race segregation laws seeking to separate
the whites and blacks in definite parts of
Norfolk, Va., stand adjudged unconstitu-
tional on a technicality.* The city lost its
appeal in * the State Circuit Court seeking
to overturn a lower court’s verdict of
unconstitutionality.
<3 W. B. Sutton, a colored plumber of Nor-
folk, Va., has received a license from the
board of control. Although Mr. Sutton has
worked at his trade efficiently for fifteen
years, since last June he has been prevented
from working by the white plumbers’ union.
The matter was taken up by the board of
control and resulted in the license.
•J “A prominent Negro was arrested because
be objected to the familiarity of white men
with colored women on the street car.”—
Muskogee (Okla.) Cimeter.
CRIME.
LYNCHINGS of Negroes, which have
occurred since the last account, are
as follows:
At Oklahoma City, Okla., Benjamin
Dickerson charged with murdering a white
man. Near Wendell, N. C., James Wilson
charged with the murder of a white woman;
even while he protested his innocence his
face was slashed and he was tortured in
other ways by a mob composed of men and
women. At Mulberry, Fla., Lewis Pack
and Waldo James, for attacking a white
man who could not identify the Negroes, as
it was dark when he was attacked. At
Jefferson, Tex., David Lee, for wounding a
white constable who has completely
recovered.
<3 There was a small race riot in Delmar,
Del., recently, which it is claimed was the
result of a colored man insulting a white
woman. Reports of the riot say that “be-
fore the riot ceased several colored men had
been severely thrashed and the streets
cleaned of colored persons, regardless of
sex.”
<1 A colored man, supposedly Dugger
Harris, who was accused of killing Peder
T.	Johnson, a white sheriff of Jacksonville,
Fla., was shot six times and killed by
Marshal H. I. Yancy at Helena, Ga. A
mob of white ruffians 'burned the body. It
seems now that the identification of the
man who was killed was by no means com-
plete and there is doubt that the victim
was Harris after all.
<3 Mrs. Jessie Ferguson, a colored woman
of Chicago, was recently criminally assaulted
by a white policeman, 'whose name had not
been made public at the last report. The
officer has been released on bail awaiting
trial.
^ Two colored men were walking along the
railroad tracks, between Delaware and
Nowata, Okla. The town marshal, Mayfield,
called to them to halt, but the men became
frightened and ran. The marshal then shot,
killing one man and wounding the other.
He excused himself by saying that he
thought the men were bootleggers.
<3 George Smith, a colored man, was on
trial in Macon, Ga., for petty larceny. His
employer, R. C. Hazlehurst, was called as
a character witness. He spoke as follows:
“Yes, I think he is guilty, they are all
guilty. As far as character is concerned, he
has no character. None of them have.”
In consideration of Hazlehurst’s feelings in
the matter, the judge added an extra month
and an extra fine of $5 to the sentence
usually imposed in petty larceny cases.
<3*J. C. Phillips, a colored college student
from Dallas, Tex., was attacked by twenty
or thirty white toughs at the Gilmar station,
where he was waiting with a young woman
for a train. The ruffians knocked his hat
off, threw the books that he carried to the
ground, and swore at him as “an educated
nigger who thought himself smart.” Shortly
.before this a colored minister and several
women were badly treated at Big Sandy,
Tex.
WILLIAM HAYES WARD.
224
THE CRISIS
AN UNSWERVING FRIEND.
' I f HE retirement of William Hayes Ward
*“* from the active direction of the
Independent marks an epoch which colored
people must not forget. Dr. Ward and
Lyman Abbot are both Massachusetts men
and born in the same
year, 1835. Both were
Congregational clergymen
and both became in the
course of time editors of
widely influential weekly
periodicals. Here the par-
allelism stops. William
Hayes Ward remained
first and last a single-
hearted straightforward
friend of human beings,
whether white, yellow or
black; He stood for de-
mocracy without “ifs,” and
he stood for that “social
equality” which eagerly
recognizes ability and char-
acter irrespective of merely
physical differences. Ly-
man Abbot began and con-
tinued to be a man who
developed a singular gift
in sensing the popular side
of any great social question
and discovering deep and
esoteric reasons for sup-
porting that side. In re-
construction times, there-
fore, both Abbot and Ward
were strong friends of the
Negro. After the Southern
revolution Dr. Abbot, as
editor of the Outlook,
gradually transferred alle-
giance, and became the
most subtle and dangerous
enemy of the Negro in
America. He joined in the
slander of mulattoes, mis-
represented and helped
disfranchisement, and used
every art of his remarkable gift in casuistry
to put the religion of Jesus Christ into the
service of color caste. Dr. Abbot did this
with so straight a face and such an assump-
tion of high motives and impeccable respect-
ability that thousands of well-meaning
Americans followed his lead.
Neither the jeers and threats of the
South nor the coldness of the North moved
Dr. Ward. In the face of criticism, and
probably at much financial loss, the Inde-
pendent continued to stand absolutely
square on the Negro problem. At times its
voice was drowned by clamor, at times it
JOHN E. ARCHER, MAYOR OF BATTERSEA.
rang out absolutely alone, but still it stood
and still its venerable white-haired editor
cried grimly with the word of ages: “Gott
helfe michy ich kawn nicht andersl” This
is a record that deserves the gratitude of
every American, and Negroes especially
should honor Dr. Ward and subscribe for
the Independent.
MEN OF THE MONTH
225
It is gratifying to The Crisis to number
Dr. Ward with its readers. He writes us:
“I think your magazine is one of the most
useful I read, for the most crying evil of
our day is the injustice to those of more or
less Negro blood.”
MRS. JOHN R. ARCHER.
THE MAYOR OF BATTERSEA.
'DURTHER information concerning John
Richard Archer, the newly elected
mayor of Battersea, London, brings out
some interesting facts.
His father was a Negro of Barbadoes,
West Indies, and his mother an Irish
woman. He was born in Liverpool. He
started to study medicine, but gave it up
on account of a nervous breakdown. Then
he began to read for the bar, but was
drawn aside by political interests, and be-
came an ardent supporter of John Burns.
He gains his livelihood as a photographer
and in this line has taken
many prizes, and has held
the position of honorary
librarian of one of the old-
est photographic societies
in London.
In the borough council
of Battersea he has been a
member of the works, val-
uation, finance, health and
baths committee. Of the
baths committee he was
chairman, and had under
his supervision the largest
public bath in England.
He has been a member of
the board of guardians,
which controls the poor
funds for the largest union
in London and second
largest in England, with a
population of nearly
480,000.
He is also a school man-
ager and chairman of a
group of school managers
which control three of the
largest schools in the dis-
trict. He is one of the
trustees of a number of
charities, a governor of Sir
Walter St. John’s school,
and a member of the first
committee formed after the
granting of old-age pen-
sions by parliament.
By reason of the na-
tionality of his mother he
belongs to the United Irish
League.
Finally, in a statement
which he sends to The
Crisis, he declares that he “fears no man
and brooks no insults because of the race to
which he is proud to belong.”
We are privileged to quote passages from
a personal letter sent to a friend in the
United States:
“Last week I attended a great function
at the Guildhall when the twenty-eight Lon-
226
THE CRISIS
don mayors were present with the lord
mayor. It filled my heart with joy to walk
in the procession of mayors in that old his-
toric building—the first time that one of
our race has done so as mayor.
"You have asked me for a sketch of my
life. I am not good at that sort of thing—
I have always refused up to now, but as it
seems to be of such special interest to the
race, I withdraw my objection. But for
Heaven’s sake don’t describe me to be what
the Chicago Defender states I am—‘tall,
handsome and brown skinned.’ The mar-
velous way you men have of making people
what they are not appals me. You will, of
course, see from the photograph sent you
that I am the reverse of being tall. The
other I admit, of course, with all modesty.
"I am interested in newspaper cuttings in
America even more than in England. I
have not taken the trouble to collect them,
but I would like to know what may be
said of my appointment in America, even
though it may be adverse. For I have learned
of one man here, an African, who did not
think that I ought to hold, as a man of
color, my present position. ‘Tell it not in
Gath!’ I would like to meet him because as
a member of the board of guardians I have
a great deal to do with imbeciles.”
Universal Brotherhood
/^LASP hands across the sea, brothers,
^ Clasp hands across the sea.
We’re brown and white and black, brothers;
What matters which it be?
We all are sons of God, brothers,
Joint workers for the good,
With hearts united, beating
In human brotherhood.
Margaret von Seydewitz.
Jena, Germany.
On Segregation
By Arthur Tunnell
(Inspired by the Washington protest meeting)
STRONG spirits must awaken! for the
time,
Unhealthy with a bitter sick unrest
That ne’er relaxes in our fevered breast,
Bids that we, Godlike, rise above the crime
That sullies the still beauty of our time,
That makes a noble state seem still unblest,
Because her weaker brothers find no rest,
But wearied, labor in a cause sublime.
Come forth! ye deep-voiced star-souled men,
And o’er the sounding land raise high your
song,
Sing o’er and o’er the truth you love again,
To tame the terror of this fearful wrong,
Teach deep inwrought the power of love
through all,
That without which earth’s glories all must
fall.
The trip of the chairman of the
executive committee to the West
abolition-,	brought notable editorial
utterances. The Chicago Evening Post, in
a leading editorial, says:
“Lincoln Center was far too small to
hold the people who wished to attend the
annual convention of the Chicago branch,
National Association for the Advancement
of Colored People, held last Sunday eve-
ning. The activities of this society and the
tone of its chief spokesman upon the occa-
sion of this annual meeting are alike sig-
nificant, and the phrase, The new aboli-
tionism/ which Professor J. E. Spingarn
made the keynote of his speech, is no
exaggeration, but fits the movement exactly.
“For it is fiery abolitionism, as against
the calm meliorism of Booker T. Washing-
ton, that this society preaches, and it.is im-
portant that these two sides of the move-
ment to alter the colored man’s status
should be clearly discerned.
“With the propaganda of Mr. Washing-
ton we are all more or less acquainted. He
emphasizes duties above rights, the actual
over the abstract, and urges his followers
to acquire money and commercial power, to
farm in preference to teaching, to become
such substantial citizens that prejudice will
no longer hurt them even if it persists.
Mr. Washington is the utilitarian of the
Negro movement.
“Dr. Du Bois, on the other hand, is the
fiery idealist of the Negro movement, and
Professor Spingarn unites to that the. cor-
responding white idealism which is the
guaranty that Dr. Du Bois’ spirit is not
beating itself in vain against a stone wall,
but is enkindling a flame at which both
white and colored men may light the torches
for their common forward march.
“The National Association for the Ad-
vancement of Colored People does not be-
lieve that any white man is a free citizen
in a free republic as long as black men are
not equally free. It specializes, therefore,
in the work of redressing grievances due to
race discrimination and in education of both
white and colored people in the idealistic
attitude. It urges the Negro to do what
he is perhaps not naturally inclined to do,
to go after his rights himself. It urges its
white members not to patronize the colored
man, not to aid him out of sentimental pity
for an underdog, but to aid him because he
is fighting the battle of American freedom
and American idealism. * * * With
Mr. Washington’s program, as far as it
goes, we have no quarrel but a deep ad-
miration. But it must be supplemented by
the old abolitionist flame of right for right’s
sake which Dr. Du Bois and Professor
Spingarn are reviving. We do not want
to see a stronger and richer Negro race
living in permanent alienation from us.
We do not want to see the mistakes of our
old competitive system, our old money
standards of success, duplicated by the
Negroes, as there is already a danger of it
being duplicated under the stimulus of
Mr. Washington’s success slogan. If the
colored man responds so readily to that
rather Anglo-Saxon ideal, how much more
readily will he respond to a slogan of
idealism.
“That idealism it is the function of the
National Association for the Advancement
of Colored People to kindle. Mr. Washing-
ton is doing a needed work in making a
strong and prosperous people from which
the association may recruit strength. But
the two sides of the general movement must
thus supplement each other, for together
they represent that balance of utilitarianism
and idealism which is the characteristic gait
of American progress.”
228
THE CRISIS
The Chicago Tribune says:
“Our mistreatment of the Indians has
been admitted to be a blot on the nation’s
’scutcheon. Are we to drift into an evil
even greater? As Dr. Du Bois says, a
quarter century ago the solution of the
Negro problem was formulated thus: ‘Take
the Negro out of politics. Train him for
work, especially for farm work.’ The
Negro has been taken out of politics by
various devices of disfranchisement which
in effect annul the Thirteenth Amendment.
This process of constitutional repeal has
been accepted complaisantly by a genera-
tion preoccupied with its own material
achievements and political and social prob-
lems. The results of this twofold policy
according to Dr. Du Bois and other ob-’
servers are ‘that the Negro schools have
been neglected; that a large proportion of
the Negro children are not in school, and
that there has been quiet but determined
opposition to the success of the higher
schools for Negroes, while in the industrial
and agricultural field the Negro has had to
contend against tremendous odds.’
“It should be said in supplement to this
that in the South white schools also have
been neglected; that the South has been
very poor and economically retarded, and
that in many districts the poor whites are
worse off than the Negroes, though because
of their own deficiencies.
“Yet after all factors are brought within
view, the human paradox appears that
wherever the Negro, in spite of the stagger-
ing handicaps under which he moves, has
forced himself upward he thereby places
himself in competition with white men ahd
immediately becomes the object of their
opposition. What is really wanted of him
is humble, useful labor. Freedom in name
he is to enjoy, but not the freedom a free
soul demands, the freedom to move forward,
to enjoy*‘the blessings of liberty,’ freedom
in the ‘pursuit of happiness.’
“We shall not solve the Negro problem
on any such basis. The wisdom of Abraham
Lincoln, who said ‘This government cannot
endure ' permanently half slave and half
free’ is wisdom to-day. Our policy toward
the Negro most certainly and most pro-
foundly will react upon ourselves. That is
a consideration which gives to the move-
ment for the advancement of colored people
the force of enlightened self-interest.”
The Boston Advertiser con-
mr. Wilson, tinues to hammer hard on
the President:
“If there is one place where there should
be no color line, it is the department of
social work. In any city which has a
large number of colored people one of the
most valuable elements in the situation is
the co-operation of the organizations which
colored people have formed for the uplift
of their own race. In Washington, par-
ticularly, the social problem of the city is
partly a problem of poor white folks, but
just as much a problem of poor colored
folks. All this would be hardly worth say-
ing were	it	not for the	fact	that the
White House has become a center for the
welfare work of Washington, and there
seems to	be	a very strict	rule	in these
WTiite House conferences that they are for
white alone. There are a good many col-
ored welfare societies in Washington which
would like to take part in the plans that
are being made to improve the city, but
they have not been bidden to the confer-
ences. It is evident that the policy of the
administration is very much	what	might be
expected	of	Southerners, *	even	when a
woman of the President’s family is trying
to improve city conditions.”
A correspondent to the Advertiser asks
“Where are the Congressmen?” and
suggests:
“It is all well enough to hold these meet-
ings of protest at Washington, but what
are the Congressmen from New England
doing? Are they upholding and abetting
this nasty discrimination? Who among
them is protesting? Not many or we
should have heard something of it by this
time up here in Boston. Are they a set
of cowards, afraid of offending the ad-
ministration officials who have favors to
give out? Do they not dare to say that
their souls are their own? I think we all
have reason to feel ashamed of them, and
I think that they will find that their
cowardice has not been forgotten when the
next nominations are given out for Congress
in Massachusetts. We ought to have men,
not dummies, in Washington.”
Another correspondent in the Boston
Herald suggests: “If we cannot be con-
OPINION
229
sistent on the Negro problem let us at least
avoid hypocrisy. Charity begins at home,”
and continues:
“Boston, of course, maintains a pretty
close social and industrial segregation of
the colored people. When they move into
a neighborhood all of the whites, who can,
move out. No strictly social club in Boston
that I know of admits colored men to mem-
bership. Restaurants discourage by rude
and humiliating service all colored folk who
would be patrons, and many, perhaps most,
bars discriminate against the colored man.
Segregation on the colored people has been
applied even by the social workers. Col-
ored men find it hard to enter skilled em-
ployments in Boston. Many hotels refuse
to employ them as waiters. Nowhere have
I heard the colored people more bitterly
denounced than here.”
The President's dilemma is facetiously
set down by the New York Sun:
“Only the most callous could withhold
sympathy from the Hon. Woodrow Wilson
in this fearful hour.
“On the one side the Hon. Oswald Gar-
rison Villard of this town frowns sternly
upon him because the Negroes in the gov-
ernment departments are undergoing the
humiliating process of segregation from
their Caucasian fellow workers.
“On the other hand, the Hon. Cole Blease
of South Carolina hurls violent invective
upon him because ‘niggers boss white women
in the government service,' a barbarism no
follower of bleasocracy can tolerate.
“Alas! for Mr. Wilson. What banner
shall he follow? The black and tan of
Villard or the pure white of Blease?”
“Norfolk” writes from Washington to the
Boston Record:
“If you believe that segregation has been
abolished in all the government departments
you are very much misled. It is hot so
public or so open; but there are some
departments still in which the colored
clerks and messengers are made to under-
stand that they must keep by themselves or
else that they will soon be out of their
jobs. Whatever the heads of the different
bureaus may tell their superiors, we here
in Washington know by the personal ex-
perience of ourselves and our friends that
the color line is being drawn every day and
that any protest against it would mean the
loss of bread and butter.”
THE RIGHT Says the Boston Advertiser in
to vote. good’ Plain	:
“We have already declared
our belief that, if the Republican party
wants an issue on which to reunite the
party, one which will appeal to the red
blood and the patriotism of every decent
American, whether Republican, or Progres-
sive, or Democrat, it is ready to hand, in
the unconstitutional and outrageous sup-
pression of the votes of American freemen,
in the Southern States, merely on account
of the color of their skins.
“A skeptical correspondent, whose letter
will be found in another column of this
page to-day, says that it would be impos-
sible to induce Congress to pass any such
law; that too many Congressmen now owe
their places in Congress, in House or
Senate, to this fraudulent and outrageous
denial of the rights of colored men to the
franchise. The ‘South is in the saddle,'
says our estimable critic, and the South is
going to do far worse things to the Negro
than the mere denial of the right to vote.
The persecution of the Negro in the differ-
ent executive departments at Washington,
it seems, is only the beginning of a country-
wide policy, south of Mason's and Dixon's
line, to ‘teach the nigger his place.'
“Moreover, says our illustrious critic,
even if Congress should so far violate
every tradition and rule of the Democratic
party, and should pass a measure which
would so appreciably destroy the influence
of the Democratic party in national politics,
President Wilson, as a self-respecting friend
of the South, would surely veto it. Our
critic seems to think that the very fact that
President Wilson, who has been free enough
in his criticism of all the other glaring
evils of American politics, has been abso-
lutely silent on this, the greatest and most
pernicious of the political ills. Mr. Wilson
has threatened to hang as high as Haman
any man who tries to injure the American
wage earner; but he has been discreetly
silent about the greater evil of the abuse of
10,000,000 of self-respecting colored wage
earners.”
It continues the argument in another
editorial:
“In all honesty, we believe that most
Republicans are rather ashamed of the
makeshift offered by the Republican
national committee, at Washington, to the
230
THE CRISIS
members of tbe party, the country over,
regarding representation in future national
conventions.
“The bargain proposed is so one sided, so
unfair, so ridiculous, that the suggested
reduction in the representation of the
Southern States in future conventions falls
far short of the admitted facts. At the
election of 1912, for example, 3,834 votes
were cast in Louisiana for the Republican
national ticket; 1,597 were cast in Missis-
sippi and 536 were cast in South Carolina.
In this State 155,000 votes were cast for
Mr. Taft. If the committee’s plan prevails,
Louisiana will be entitled in the next
national convention to one delegate for
every 319 voters, Mississippi to one for
every 133 voters and South Carolina to
one for every 48 voters, while Massachu-
setts will have to be satisfied, even if it
retains its present 36 votes, to one delegate
for every 4,500 voters. Alabama will have
one delegate for every 650 voters, while
New York will have but one delegate for
every 5,000 voters. Georgia will have a
delegate for each group of 350 voters,
while Ohio may have one delegate for every
5,S00	voters.
“Of course any such basis of representa-
tion, so completely discriminatory and one
sided, is almost as bad as the old system
of the ‘rotten boroughs’ of the solid South.
The national committee has not helped mat-
ters much by what it offers. It admits that
the present system of representation is un-
fair, and merely suggests—not that the
discrimination and unfairness be abolished
—but that it be slightly less unfair than it
has previously been. The plan seems ridicu-
lous. It fails to meet the vital point of the
whole issue, that the time has come when the
national committee and the national conven-
tion shall fairly and proportionately repre-
sent the voters of the Republican party, not
merely political machines without any voters
behind them.
“If that is the best the national com-
mittee can do, for honest party representa-
tion, the Republicans of the different States
should consider whether they may not
arrange their own party conference, to deal
honestly and justly with this whole issue of
Republican representation and political
representation in general. For the thing is
a stench and a scandal in American politics.
The whole country knows that a large
proportion of the citizens of the United
States are denied the right to vote. And
the whole country knows that these men are
taxed without representation, and that the
Constitutional provisions 'respecting the
suppression of votes in the United States
is impudently and openly violated, in the
matter of the representation, both in the
House of Representatives and in the
Electoral College.”
The revelation of high political morality
in South Carolina since the suppression of
the Negro vote has been exposed by the
•contested election of Richard S. Whaley.
“Whatever way the charges are looked
at,” says the New York Evening Post, “they
show an exceedingly ugly state of things.
For they are brought by Mayor Grace of
Charleston, and, if false, place the head of
that city’s government in the position of a
villainous slanderer; while, if they are true,
they make the representative from the
Charleston district a gross debaucher of his
constituency. Here is an extract from the
speech of Mr. Frear, of Wisconsin, urging
the investigation:
“ ‘The testimony shows that $100,000 was
spent in two primaries by the two candi-
dates, that money flowed like water, that
men were bought and sold like sheep, and
that this debauched condition of affairs ex-
isted throughout the district. Names of men
who were bought and names of buyers were
furnished; also amounts paid to different
men and amounts allotted to each ward or
precinct. It was specifically charged that
an expenditure of $60,000 was made by the
Whaley faction with Mr. Whaley’s knowl-
edge and consent, and testimony, was given
to that effect.
“ ‘Although notified of every hearing,
Mr. Whaley refused to appear and face
his accusers. But one day during their
absence the committee was called together
to hear Mr. Whaley make a brief statement
and to permit him to file counter affidavits
in his own defence. The committee never
had power to do anything, and now reports
back to the House it wants no power and
does not believe an investigation desirable.’
“This is unpleasantly reminiscent of the
Lorimer case, in more ways than one. But
one is hardly prepared to see this sort of
thing said about a South Carolina
gentleman.”
OPINION
231
“The meanest law ever enacted
m any btate in this country,
is what the Continent calls “the new Florida
statute, which forbids white teachers to in-
struct Negro pupils. It is mean because
whatever excuses are made for it, the real
purpose beneath is to interfere with white
Christians who want to help colored children
and young people up into better intelligence
and better character. It is a law against the
colored race becoming better in the next gen-
eration than it is in this. And nothing could
be more diabolical than legal enactments
intended to perpetrate social and racial
depression.”
The characteristic falsification of facts
concerning the Southern situation is illus-
trated by a letter from 0. T. Headley in the
Congregatio?ialist. He says that there are as
many Negroes lynched in the North, accord-
ing to population, as there are in the South.
This is not so. Of the 79 lynched in 1913
three, or less than 4 per cent., were lynched
outside the former slave States, and two of
these were lynched in contiguous territory,
namely. Southern Oliio and Indiana. The
North contains 11 per cent, of all the Negroes
in the country. The proportion of Negroes
lynched in the North has risen as high as
5 or C per cent, in the past, but it has never
come anywhere near this extraordinary
statement.
Again, it is said that Negro school children
in Alabama are granted as much money per
capita as the whites, by the State, and that
the State builds high-school buildings for
both races. This is absolutely false. In
Alabama the colored children form 45 per
cent, of the population and receive, according
to the report of the United States Commis-
sioner of Education, 12 per cent, of the edu-
cational funds. The writer may be quibbling
as to State and local funds, but even in the
distribution of State funds the discrimination
is quite as great.
The writer says that the State furnishes
high-school training to all Negroes who
apply. There are only four colored high
schools in the State with 319 pupils, while in
the private high schools there are nearly
5,000	pupils not provided for by the State.
But why argue?
The Greenville (S. C.) News says:.
“There are many intelligent and well-
meaning persons who object to the educa-
tion of the Negro, holding that such educa-
tion will breed future trouble. Then, of
course, there is the politician who uses this
question for his own gain by appealing
to passion and prejudice. The politician
is not afraid of the future; he doesn’t care
a rap for the future; indeed this indiffer-
ence to the welfare of those who come after
him is his most distinguishing characteristic.
So let him pass, and turn to the first class
mentioned: the well-meaning persons who
sincerely have doubts as to the expediency
of Negro education. To them we have this
to say. There are many problems which
only time can settle; and time will settle
them, if we do our duty. And can any one
doubt that the duty of a stronger race is
to raise a weaker one? And can any one
doubt that education, which is, or ought
to be, preparation for life, is the best way
to raise them?”
The San Antonio (Tex.) Express com-
ments on a recent meeting of Negro teach-
ers as follows:
“The presence of more than 1,000 teach-
ers and the discussion of practical questions
relating to school work, at the recent State
convention of colored teachers in Brenham,
was a pleasing indication of the work that
is being done for the elevation of the
colored race.”
In two schools of the South difficulties
between the colored students and the white
Northern teachers have occurred. The
Christian Recorder says:
“It seems from the public press that the
students of Shaw University have rebelled
against the president of the school, Rev.
C.	R. Meserve, and the students of Clark
University protested against President
Foster.
“We do not know the details of either
case, and we shall not attempt any dis-
cussion of the same.
“But the unrest in these schools, and in
several others, is such as to call for serious
consideration, as it is becoming too general
a thing these days to have colored students
rebel. And it is almost a new thing. It is
very probably certain that the strained re-
lations have grown up largely because of
the fact that the students are colored and
the teachers are white. No one regrets more
than we do the growing breach between the
races. It is one of the most lamentable
phases of our life. The times have very
greatly changed, and many of the white
232
THE CRISIS
teachers who have given their lives to the
colored race are finding that the colored
people do not seem to appreciate it as much
now as they once did.
“Yet, but little of the trouble is with the
remnant of that older class of teachers,
whose devotion to the Negro must ever re-
main one of the most inspiring chapters of
our national history. In those early days
not only the brains but the best of heart
and soul, which the North had, went to
teach the Negro. Those were the days of
the Armstrongs, the Wares, the Cravaths
and their kind, who bound their students by
ties of love, which were stronger than hoops
of steel. A younger group of Thirkields,
Frissels, Bumsteads, Charlotte Thornes, et
al., followed them, but they are fast passing.”
The Charlotte Observer has this tribute
to the Negro nurse:
“Of peculiar interest to Southern readers
should be the story ’ which comes from
Chicago of a Southern white bqy taken sud-
denly and desperately ill with pneumonia
who was hurried by the doctors to a Negro
hospital as the one most convenient. His
mother telegraphed urging his removal to
some other hospital. It was too late for
that. For thirty-six hours continuously the
nurse assigned him fought for his life and
won. The mother, while doubtless not
affected in just the way some Northern
people might expect her to be, pays heart-
felt tribute to the qualities exemplified by
this Negro trained nurse. She had proba-
bly known before, as Southern people
generally know, that the Negro woman
household nurse is the best and most faith-
ful in the world. She could not have
expected less of a Negro nurse profes-
sionally trained for the care of the sick.
Very, very few of us who had Negro
nurses in our childhood can ever forget the
debt of kindness we owe the Negro race.”
THE NEGRO
AND THE
CHURCH.
Woodbury
■conference:
The deeply religious are feel-
ing keenly the shame of the
attitude of the church toward
the Negro. Miss Ida Vose
said at a home mission
“The supreme test of the melting pot in
this country to-day is not the immigrant,
"but the native-born American Negro. • • •
Democracy to-day is on trial for its life,
and if it fails the test, then the influence
of this country on other countries will be
nil. It is not worth while for the white
people of this country to send missionaries
to China while the man around the corner
is a Chinaman; no use to send to Africa
while the women who do your laundry are
Negroes. The time has long since passed
when we can send men to foreign countries
to evangelize without backing up what they
say of the Christian’s God right here in
our own country. The work there will
never be perfect unless we have in this
country the spirit of universal brotherhood.
“In every crisis in this country’s history
the black man has fought for its salvation,
and where the black hand has touched the
staff the old flag has never touched the
ground. America can never fulfil its mis-
sion of saving the world until it exemplifies
the spirit of equality, democracy and uni-
versal brotherhood in this supreme test of
the melting pot.”
Walter Rauschenbusch has for the first
time spoken out on the Negro problem:
“It seems clear to me,” he says, “that any
religion which claims to be Christianity
must not only t^ach us to respect the worth
of others, but must also stiffen the back-
bone of men and teach them to respect
themselves. There is some historical justi-
fication for the charge of Nietzsche that
Christianity has taught the servile virtues
of patience and submission. I believe in
gentleness and meekness, but not in servil-
ity. I have no faith in force methods and
even believe in non-resistance, but not in a
non-resistance of cowardice and silence.
There was nothing cringing in Jesus. He
did not strike back, but neither did he
flinch. He was The terrible meek.’
“I am thinking of the Negro race in say-
ing this. For years the problem of the two
races in the South has seemed to me so
tragic, so insoluble, that I have never yet
ventured to discuss it in public. We, of
the North have come to realize that the
problem of the black man was solved fifty
years ago in anger and bitterness and,
therefore, solved very poorly. We realize
that we cannot solve it for the South. But
no solution by Southern men can be per-
manent which does not satisfy the Christian
consciousness of the whole nation. And
no solution will satisfy the Christian spirit
OPINION
233
of our united nation which does not provide
for the progressive awakening of hope and
self-respect in the individual Negro and the
awakening of race pride and race ambition
in all Negro communities. Any white boy
in his teens will prove to us .that the awful
awakening of manhood never takes place
without repulsive side products, such as
sullenness, stubbornness and. insolence. But
the cure for the evils of incipient manhood
is maturer manhood, and not repression.
We are hearing voices from the South that
practically condemn the black race per-
manently to the position of a servile caste,
and some that even deny that the Negro
shares the same common human blood with
us. We know well that these views repre-
sent only one drift in Southern thought,
perhaps only a small minority. But we
have before this seen a small oligarchy with
determined convictions, and backed by
inherited social prejudices and concrete
economic interests, swinging great sections
of the nation with them and imperiling the
moral progress of our people. We owe it
to our brethren in the South, who are our
beloved kinsmen and one with us, to say
that the solution of the problem does not
lie that way and never will.”
a
SAVE SOUTH
CAROLINA.
“South Carolina was a glori-
ous State; South Carolina is
a glorious State; but by all
that's holy, the good people of South Caro-
lina ought to take hold of their State gov-
ernment. The impossible Blease is a blot
on the splendid history of the Palmetto
State. Those who follow his lead deserve,
as they will in time receive, the condemna-
tion of the better people of the South,
irrespective of color. To defeat Hampton
and Butler, and the type of gentleman
statesmen of whom they were representa-
tives, Tillman and his followers sowed the
dragon’s teeth, which in the fertile soil of
prejudice fructified and grew, until to-day
there is a harvest of blind passion and
brutal prejudice rampant in the State that
for years was in the forefront of American
civilization.
“One body of the legislature of South
Carolina has passed a bill prohibiting white
people from teaching Negroes. This is but
an illustration of the criminally shortsighted
legislation proposed by those whose hold
upon office is only through ignorance and
prejudice.”—Lexington (Ky.) Herald.
THE WORLD PROBLEM The f°l0r CORScioUfl-
OP THE COLOR LINE. DeSf	to be
all pervasive. A
writer in the London Chronicle says:
“Mr. Bryce’s remarks on race antago-
nism remind me of a day when I took an
American visitor ’round the metropolis
sightseeing. It was his first visit to this
country, and at the close of the day he
gave me his impressions. One of them was
a disagreeable one, occasioned by his obser-
vation of the fact that the Negro in our
country is treated as a man and a brother.
I had quite unconsciously subjected my
American guest to the annoyance of having
to sit in close proximity to a colored gen-
tleman at a restaurant which we visited, and
of meeting another, a noted musician, at a
literary club. We argued the question at
some length, but I soon found that the
antagonism lay deeper than argument. It
was instinctive and ineradicable, and yet,
oddly enough, he was of British stock.
Two or three generations of ancestry in the
United States had sufficed to set up in him
this incurable race prejudice.”
A white South African, writing from
London to the Natal Witness, declares
that:
“In a country like South Africa, where
the dark races outnumber the whites by
something like six to one, there must be no
cheese-paring tactics; no soft-soaping meth-
ods; no brotherly love between black and
white. ‘Once a nigger, always a nigger.’
It is a terrible thing to say; but once you
educate and Christianize your native you
make a blackguard of him.
“If the English people could only realize
something of the awfulness of the ‘black
peril’ evil in South Africa, they would
draw in their horns, and keep their hos-
pitality to people of their own color and
not encourage the blacks as they do to-day.”
The A. P. O., a colored paper of South
Africa, says in answer to Sir Thomas Watt:
“Why the success of the Indian strike
should ultimately lead to ‘mob rule’ by
natives is difficult to conceive, except it be
used simply as an argument to scare whites
into supporting the government to persecute
Indians.
“Mob rule, indeed 1 If ever there were
‘mob rule’ in South Africa, it came into
existence with the birth of the Botha gov-
ernment. The white mob has fleeced the
THE SOCIAL LIFE OF COLOEED AMERICA.
II.—THE BACHELOR-BENEDICTS’ ASSEMBLY.
NEW YORK CITY.
236
THE CRISIS
natives to the tune of nearly £4,000,000
since union, out of which Sir Thomas Watt
gets £3,000 a year. The white mobs are
burning Kaffir kraals to drive natives into
slavery. And it is to put an end to this
mob rule and establish law and order that
the natives will and must one day strike,
and that at no distant date.”
William Piekens has this interesting com-
ment in the Congregationalist:
“A Negro in Europe pretty soon devel-
ops infallible tests by which he can tell
Americans at sight. A white man in Paris,
if he be a Frenchman, who has not seen a
dozen Negroes in all his life, will give the
Negro a look of normal curiosity and pass
on; but a white man in Paris, who has just
come from some part of Mississippi, where
five-sixths of the inhabitants are colored,
will stare at a Negro in the Champs de
Mars as if he had never seen one before,
and, alas! he may not only stare, but frown.
If a black man enters a car in which all
the places are taken but one, and the per-
son sitting next to it tries to spread himself
over two seats so as to prevent the Negro
from sitting, he knows that person to be
an American.
“If he enters a dining room in Berlin
and some guest gives him a tigerish look,
as if to say, Won have no business here/
he knows that guest is his fellow country-
man. If the people across the table seize
the dish of food deposited by the waiter,
rake all the contents into their own plates
and leer at the Negro contemptuously, he
knows they are folks from home. If he is
on the deck of a Rhine steamer and some
meddlesome person at a safe distance inter-
lards a remark with ‘nigger/ he recognizes
a person from the chivalrous part of the
United States. If anybody anywhere offers
him gratuitous insult, he recognizes in that
body one of those whom the newspapers at
home call his ‘best friends/ Of course,
there are other Americans than these
abroad, but the Negro meets no such person
from any other part of the world, civilized
or savage, Christian or heathen.
“I saw one young woman from Arkansas
who, when she was in Jerusalem, made a
scene in a public dining room when she dis-
covered two colored women seated at
another table in a far corner from hers.
To the great embarrassment of the rest of
her party, most of whom were from the
North and East, she carried her protest intc
rebellion and would not eat in that room.
And the two colored women were American
members of the International Sunday
Sehool Convention that had been in session
at Zurich. This scene in the old Jerusalem
is enough to make the Negro wonder how
the Lord will manage it in the New Jeru-
salem if he admits people from Arkansas.”
Batfell Loomis writes in the Independent:
“There is a colored barber on the Fall
River boat ‘Commonwealth/ who, by no
unpleasant stretch of the imagination, could
be called ‘nigger/
“I had my hair cut by him the other day
and, to while away my time, picked up the
book he had been reading. It was essays
on the style and aim of Goethe’s writings.
I laid the volume down again, since its
owner at once outdistanced it in interest
to my mind. From 59th Street, East River,
to the pier in the North, I enjoyed that
most excellent of pleasures, communion with
a human heart and an aspiring mind. The
man was familiar with the late Coleridge-
Tayloris subtle harmonizations of African
melodies and was well read in the literary
works of this country.
“I cite this Negro thus fully because it is
my purpose emphatically to consider the
futility- of race distinctions as typified
by the vulgar epithets applied in scorn.
Other terms—which I might call boomerang
words, since they hit their users harder than
those they are aimed at—are ‘dago/ ‘chink,’
‘sheenie’ and ‘gringo/ These are all used
in the world and I quote the latter because
it is applied in Southern quarters to us
superior white men in the North of the
Western hemisphere.
“It simply doesn’t apply. We are Ameri-
cans, not gringos. So, logically, are our
scorned brethren Italians, Chinese, Nippon-
ese and Jews. There can be no disparative
race distinction between men. A man, and
there are some of every color, is, above all
petty definitions, secure in his title to man-
hood and he will seek and find his own if
he has to despise his own kin to do it.”
Ex-President Taft has recently been
recommending national compensation for
the lynching of foreigners. He says in the
Independent:
“It does not soothe one’s pride of coun-
try to note the number of lynchings of our
own citizens that go unwhipped of justice
OPINION
237
and that are properly held up to ns with
scorn whenever we assume, as we too fre-
quently do, a morality higher than and a
government better than that of other peo-
ples. Nor is our feeling in this regard
rendered less acute by hearing from the
governors of some of our States, expres-
sions brazenly defending and approving
such lynchings. Still more embarrassing is
our situation, when we are called upon to
explain to a government with whom we
have made a solemn covenant to protect its
citizens or subjects in their right of peace-
able residence here and in the enjoyment of
business and happiness under the aegis of
the United States, to have to say that while
we did make a covenent, they ought to
have known that under our system we as a
government had no means of performing
that covenant or of punishing those who, as
our citizens, had grossly violated it”
UNCLE MOSE
SUGGESTS.
“I _doan want no hifalutin*
comberfercations Tbout de in-
dependence ob de farmer.
By de time you rent yohr patch ob groan*
and gets credit foh de one-eyed mul wid de
lame shouldah, and pays Mas* Storekeeper
foh bacon and beans, and raise yohr little
dab o* cohn, and weah yo* wife and children
to a frazzle draggin* cotton bags in de
briUin’ hot sun, and den sells yo* crop, yo*
finds whar yo* independence am at. If yo*
dun hab enuff left to take yo* to de new
place dat yo* rents in hope ob transub-
boshicatin* yo* condition, yo* hab bin a very
successful agricultahist. Yo* kin den push
de lines a little hahdah, and may be, by
de time yo* lays down to de las* sleep an*
de great crop is done laid by, yo* will
have enough ovah de mortgage to pay foh
buryin’ yo*, pervided de brederin* will dig
de grave free gratis; and dat will be de
fust land you ever owned in all yo* bohn
days!”—Appeal to Reason.
prizes ^ast sPr^Dto the Cottolene Company
offered prizes in Albany, Ga., for
the best cakes that should be made by using
their cooking fat. So much interest was
aroused that not only private families, but
public schools entered the contest. Miss
Zephyr L. Greene, a graduate of Atlanta
University, and a teacher of cooking in the
colored public school, bought materials under
the directions and she and her children baked
cakes, put numbers upon them and sent
them into the contest. Then the unexpected
happened—at least to the white folk and
especially to the teacher of cooking in the
white school who was also a contestant:
Miss Greene won the first prize—a gold
medal—over aU contestants, and her children
also won a prize. The white teacher was so
incensed that she refused the prize that was
given her, saying that she did not know
“niggers” would compete!
“ *We make a great mistake in believing
that the characteristics shown by the Negro
in this country are the racial characteris-
tics of his people in Africa and are due to
hereditary tendencies. Biology does not
show that there is any inequality in the
mental outfits of the white and the black
races, and, therefore, we should not with-
hold from the Negro the benefits of educa-
tion, which are given to his white brother.*
“These are the opinions of Professor
Franz Boas, of Columbia University, pre-
sented to an audience that gathered in the
lecture hall of the university museum,
where he delivered the second of a series of
three lectures on American racial problems.
Professor Boas brought before his audience,
by pictures and by specimens from the
university museum, examples of the artistic
sense of the native of Central Africa, and
demonstrated by the exhibits that the Afri-
can is higher in the scale of artistic men-
tality than was the North-American Indian.
“He said that the condition of the Negro
in America is due to the treatment he re-
ceived from the whites. The Negro, he said,
is capable of advancing just as fast as can
the whites, provided the opportunity is not
withheld from him. The speaker stated
that he did not believe that there should be
any legislation such as that existing in many
of the Southern States by which marriage
is prohibited between members of white and
black race. He said that racial problems
become less acute when the physical differ-
ences between the races are reduced. In this
way, he believes, a race problem between the
whites and niula t toes would cause less
apprehension than the present problem
involving whites and blacks.**—Philadelphia
Record.
A CRUSADE.
HE Western trip of the
chairman of the board
of directors was a clarion
call to arms. To
Chicago, St. Louis,
Kansas City and Indian-
apolis went the cry which had already
aroused black Washington as it was
never aroused before. Mr. Spingarn
told the people, colored and white, that
the time had come for organization and
work. The new abolitionism has come.
Its workers are in the field and its voice
is heard from St. Paul to New Orleans
and from sea to sea.
Already the Bourbon press of the
South, abetted by colored traitors in the
North, is taking notice. The Richmond
Times-Dispatch said in its leading edi-
torial of January 12:
“Someone has sent us a special num-
ber of a Negro monthly magazine, which
appears to us to be about the most in-
cendiary document that has passed
through the mails since the anarchists *
literature was barred.
“On its title page this remarkable pub-
lication bears this legend: ‘Hereditary
Bondsmen! Know Ye Not Who Would
Be Free Must Strike the Blow?’
Answering its own question, the maga-
zine proceeds to list some of the ‘blows’
valiant Negroes have struck, the race
hatred they have aroused, the bloodshed
they have precipitated, the insolence
which has aroused so many against them.
Altogether the array would be amusing
were not its purpose so manifestly
vicious.9 9
It declares that fighting means razors
and revolvers and fears that the whites
of the South would be inclined to
answer with ruthless repression and
cruel injustice. All that has been
gained in a generation for good will and
peace would be sacrificed.
It then cites the recent Southern
Sociological Congress as characteristic of
the attitude of the South! On the con-
trary, that splendid congress is precisely
the sort of fighting which we advocate,
and there was not a Southern man in it
who did not risk his bread and butter by
speaking out.
It is the reactionary Bourbonism of
the Times-Dispatch and its ilk that
makes a great moral battle for a new
abolition absolutely necessary in the
land. The editor thinks that:
“This particular magazine is of lim-
ited circulation, and is probably tlje
organ of ambitious Negroes in New
York. Its remarks, therefore, are
scarcely worthy of consideration and its
opinions beneath notice. But were this
spirit to spread among the Negroes, we
can but think how disastrous would be
its workings. ’ ’
The Crisis sold 32,000 copies of its
January number, which is a larger cir-
culation than the Times-Despatch has.
And The Crisis renews the invitation
to every American, black or white: Join
or die. Join the National Association
for the Advancement of Colored
People. Support its work, advocate its
principles.
Ignore the mischievous intimation of
venal colored editors that we are “fight-
■
EDITORIAL
239
ing” Booker T. Washington. We are
fighting slavery, caste and cowardice in
black men and white; nothing more and
nothing less.
m
LYNCHING.
E do not blame the people
of the United States for
being ashamed of lynch-
ing, but we have serious
doubtsdf recent methods
of curing the evil are
going to be really efficacious. We do
not refer now to the unjust and
dangerous hastening of the trials of ac-
cused persons, nor even to the proposed
lessening of the penalty for mob
murder; but rather to an attempt, delib-
erate or unintentional, to suppress the
truth concerning the present extent of
lynching in this land.
The Crisis noted this last year. The
first reports suggested that only thirty-
four persons had been lynched during
1912. The second report published in
other papers Taised the amount to fifty
or more while The Crisis ’ record was
“sixty-three, possibly sixty-eight.’’
As this, however, was our first attempt
to keep a record, we let the matter go
without comment; but we note for the
year 1913 precisely the same phenomena,
namely, an early syndicated report in
certain papers with thirty-odd lynch-
ings; next comes the Chicago Tribune,
which has hitherto been looked upon as
an authority on lynching statistics, and
reports forty-four lynchings for the
year. Then comes Mr. B. T. Washing-
ton’s report saying there were fifty-one.
God knows . The Crisis is not anxious
to increase the red record nor to revel
in the spread of this most disgraceful
blot upon our civilization. But never-
theless The Crisis has counted during
the year 1913 seventy-nine and possibly
eighty lynchings. There is, of course,
much difficulty in determining just the
number of lynchings. News agencies in
the South often deliberately suppress
these reports and in nearly all cases are
vague as to names, places and details.
It is always possible, therefore, that the
same lynching may be reported twice;
then, too, there is evident difficulty in
determining what constitutes a lynching.
Ordinary murders, even though by mobs,
have usually not been included. Making
all due allowances for these things, The
Crisis is unable to see any reason for
believing that lynching decreased last
year. On the contrary, the evidence of
a substantial increase seems very strong.
We would be only too glad to have our
conclusions disproved.
m
BOOMING THE CRISIS.
HE Washington Bee, a
weekly colored periodical
has been stirred to its
vitals by the fear that
the money collected in
Washington and else-
where for the National Association for
the Advancement of Colored People is
going to be used for the support of The
Crisis. We assure the editor that not a
single cent of such moneys goes to the
support of The Crisis. The Crisis
supports itself, and has from the begin-
ning, with the single exception that the
association provides an editor for it.
Even this, however, does not appar-
ently suit the nimble Bee. “But the
National Association for the Advance-
ment of Colored People ignores the
splendid, vitalizing work of the race
newspapers already established, and
established and financed by their editors,
while concentrating its efforts and giving
of its funds exclusively to make The
Crisis, a very late comer, the real and
only organ of the race. ’ ’ Here again the
editor is mistaken. Far from displacing
the colored weekly newspapers, The
Crisis is giving them all possible pub-
licity and full and careful credit for
everything which it reprints.
The Crisis regrets, however, that the
amount of matter published in the Bee
and in many other papers, which is
240
THE CRISIS
worth reprinting or even reading, is not
nearly as large as it ought to be. More-
over, The Crisis is convinced that more
careful attention to some of the very
things which this editor denounces
would bring larger success to the colored
weekly papers.
First:	Facts. Of the newspapers
mentioned only one, the Afro-American
Ledger, jnakes a careful and valuable
attempt to present the facts concerning
the Negro. The others present some of
the facts, but in a partial and incom-
plete way.
Second: English. Some of the best
of colored papers are so wretchedly care-
less in their use of the English language
and sense of the value of words that when
they see English they are apt to mis-
take it for something which the Bee
mysteriously characterizes as “ Oscar
Wilde atomized sentences/ ’ whatever
that may be.
But third and most important: Few
of the colored weekly papers have stood
staunch for principle. Outside the
Guardian and the Cleveland Gazette
there have not been more than one or
two colored papers from whom the
Negro people could expect year in and
year out strong, staunch advocacy of
the fundamental principles of freedom
and justice. Small wonder that they
welcome a periodical which (whatever
its many faults may be) at least tries
to give the facts, talk English and stand
as an unpurchasable advocate of justice
and right.
m
TAXATION WITHOUT REPRESENTA-
TION, PLUS THEFT.
EGROES form 40 per
cent, of the population
of Memphis, Tenn. The
city laid the following
' taxes during the year
'	1912:
For General Purposes.......... $1.32	on	$100
For Public Schools.............. .25	on	$100
Total City Rate............. 1.57
State Levy for Parks..............15 on	$100
State Levy for Cossett Library .03 on	$100
Total Rate for City........$1.75 on	$100
State and County Taxes.
State ............................35	on	$100
County ......................... .21	on	$100
Schools .........................32	on	$100
High Schools .....................01	on	$100
Bolton College ...................01	°n	$100
Industrial School..................01	on	$100
Industrial School Apportion-
ment .............................01%on$100
M. & O. R. R. Sinking	Fund..	.01	on $100
County Bonds Sinking	Fund. .	.01	on	$100
Levee Bonds Sinking	Fund. .	.01	on	$100
Interest...........................05	on	$100
Bridge ......................... .08	on	$100
Turnpike .........................15	on	$100
Normal School ....................01	on	$100
From this taxation the Negroes get
less than half their proportionate share
for public schools and not one-fourth
their share of public improvements;
they cannot enter the parks for which
they paid, but in 1913 they were given
a small plot of land for a park. They
are denied all access whatsoever to the
following places which they support by
taxation:
The Cossett Library.
The high school.
Bolton College.
The industrial school. •
The normal school.
And Negroes have not a single rep-
resentative in the city government.
Not only this, but they are large
renters of real estate. Everybody knows
that the renter of real estate pays the
taxes on it because the owner invariably
charges him enough to pay the taxes and
repairs and a reasonable (or unreason-
able) return in addition.
Who is supporting Memphis?
WTio is supporting the South?
Taxation without representation is
tyranny.	gg
THE SURVEY.
E editor of the Survey
expresses to us his dis-
satisfaction with an
editorial in our last
issue, because of the
omission of a paragraph
which was in the first draft of the state-
ment referred to, and because an official
of this organization also objected to
paragraph six. The omitted paragraph
EDITORIAL
241
simply stated that the National Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Colored
People was working for the mentioned
objects. When the Survey questioned
this the author said, “Omit it.” But
the Survey refused even then to print
the article. As to the objections raised
by any official of this organization the
editor of The Crisis has no knowledge
of any such action. The Survey has, of
course, the right to reject even solicited
manuscripts after acceptance and for
any reason or none. But the objection
at the time as stated to the writer was
certainly the inclusion of paragraph six,
and all other objections seemed sub-
sidiary to this.
m
A LITTLE PLAY.
ME: Now.
Place: Here.
Enter the Pale One
and the Brown One,
dressed alike, speaking
English, but coming from
opposite entrances.
The Pale One: “Colored people are
dirty, ignorant, lazy, poor and rude.
Until they become clean, intelligent,
thrifty, well to do and polite they must
expect to be treated badly.”
The Brown One:- “Are all colored
people dirty,:ignorant, lazy and rude?
If so, I am colored and therefore I must
be----”
The Pale One: ‘ * Oh, no ! I mean most
colored people; or at any rate some
colored people.”
The Brown One: “And therefore
should all colored people be treated
badly, or only the dirty and ignorant
and lazy and poor and rude?”
The Pale One : ‘ ‘ Only the dirty and
ignorant and-----”
The Brown One: “And is it only
dirty, ignorant, lazy, poor and rude
colored folk who are to be badly
treated ? ' '
The Pale One: 1‘ Certainly not. All
people who are dirty, ignorant, lazy,
poor and rude must expect bad
treatment.'1
The Brown One: “And has history
proven that ‘bad treatment' is the best
cure for dirt, ignorance, poverty and
rudeness, or is bad treatment their
cause ?99
The Pale One: “I can't go into that.
At present they are treated badly.”
The Brown One: “They surely are.
And now, finally, how shall I be
treated ?''
The Pale One: “You shan't marry my
sister. ’'
The Brown One: “I don't want to;
but to return to the subject----”
The Pale One: “You are seeking
social equality!”
The Brown One: “If that means I'm
seeking decent treatment------”
The Pale One: “You belong to an
inferior race!”
The Brown One: “For Heaven's
sake-----''
The Pale One: “Oh, bother!”
Exit the Pale One in anger.
Exit the Brown One in thought.
FROM THE NEW YORK “WORLD.”
O the editor of the World:
“I feel it my duty to
praise the Negro crew of
the ‘Monroe.' Why I
speak of the Negroes
especially is because
their great work of rescuing and sacri-
ficing has not been fully appreciated.
“Every sensible and considerate man
knows that these men deserve unlimited
credit. There has been very much said
about the wireless operator and the
officers' bravery. Unquestionably they
were extremely brave and they will be
long remembered; but the colored hero
who got out of his lifeboat to give his
seat to a lady and then took chances
on swimming for his life, which he lost,
is complimented as a ‘brave coon,' a
‘good nigger,' etc., and will soon be
forgotten.
“Some people can see all the evil
Negroes do, but very little of the good.
“John Y. Morse.”
TLe Association of Negro Secondary and Industrial Schools
SB fg By LESLIE PINCKNEY HILL gg [g

HE Association of Negro
Secondary and Industrial
Schools is an attempt on
the part of eighteen South-
ern schools, most of them
without adequate endow-
ment, to bind their efforts
in two main directions. The first object is
to create a wider general interest in the
work which these schools are doing for the
neglected masses of colored people through-
out the country. It is well known that
these institutions supply what the public-
school systems cannot or will not attempt.
They-offer not only the three R’s, but also
instruction in personal hygiene, home sani-
tation, good manners, agricultural and trade
or manual work. It is only in the last few
years that the public schools have given any
attention whatever to those special needs of
our people, failure to supply which has
been the chief explanation of what is called
the Negro problem in the South. Schools
like those of this association have courage-
ously endeavored to meet the situation, un-
trammeled by the conventions and traditions
of the prevalent schools system, and with
the faith that there should be no race
problem, so far as ordinary intelligence
and the ability to do well some part of the
world’s work may be required of Negro
youth. These schools have had as their
major aim the development of productive
citizens. The remarkable degree in which
they have actually succeeded in reaching
this aim is acknowledged on all sides. It
is the graduates of these institutions who
are becoming leaders in education, in the
building up of a higher home life, and in
■widening the bounds of industrial oppor-
tunity for their people from within.
These schools have accomplished all this
with very little money. Such resources as
have been available have been the result of
constant appeals to the public and volun-
teered subscriptions. The attitude of the
public toward charities of all sorts has
undergone radical changes in the last few
years. There is a decided tendency to give
to good causes only after thorough investi-
gation. This is right. There is also a
tendency to think that enough is being done
for the education of the Negro in the South.
This is wrong. There is hardly a single
private school for colored people in the
South that is able now to keep up with the
rapid.rise in the cost of supplies of every
sort, particularly food supplies. It is ex-
tremely hard to get good teachers for star-
vation salaries, and money for salaries is
another most grievous need. The quality
of teaching is indirectly conditioned upon
the quality of the teacher. Young men of
mental and physical vigor can make more
money in almost any other vocation than
teaching. The same general statement may
be made about women, who soon drop out
either for marriage or for some industrial
work that will yield more in dollars and
cents. Money, then, is dreadfully needed.
The principals of these schools have gone
North ever since the war to appeal to
charitably disposed individuals, to churches,
and to the philanthropic societies and or-
ganizations for the help they have had to
secure. But this system has practically
broken down, and on all hands one hears
the cry that some better method of support-
ing these institutions will have to be found.
Moreover, the Northerner is more and more
inclined every year to concentrate upon
charities at home; and this at a time when
representatives from these Southern schools
are every year increasing in the North.
The situation is now, indeed, so critical
that a number of these schools are consider-
ing the necessity of having to close their
doors, unless some surer means of support
can be found.
To awaken a new and more effective pub-
lic interest, therefore, in these schools is
the first aim of the association. The second
aim is to make known to the public the
exact status of every school for the training
of Negroes in the United States, to the end
that those whose work is worthy, and whose
accounting for funds received is what it
ought to be, may receive the support they
deserve, and, on the other hand, that the
fraudulent and improperly conducted in-
stitutions, existing more on paper than in
fact, and increasing the severe burden which
the honest schools have already to carry,
NEGRO SECONDARY AND INDUSTRIAL SCHOOLS
243
may be set before the public in the proper
light. It is the belief of the association
that the best people, white and colored,
throughout the country do appreciate what
these schools are attempting, and are will-
ing to continue their support of them if
they can be assured that they are conducted
upon approved present-day business prin-
ciples, that they are not wasting their re-
sources, and are giving to the thousands of
young people who stream through them
real education. The association also feels
it a duty to safeguard the supporting pub-
lic by making it impossible for any member
school to fail* of exact accounting for every
penny that has been received or spent.
Now it is proposed to create this wider
interest, and to secure needed money by a
very definite program. All the schools of
the association are committed to a minimum
standard of work as definitely outlined in
the minimum course of study, which in-
cludes both academic and industrial train-
ing. The effort is not made to constrain
every institution into one set form or to
make all these schools alike in any sense.
It is perfectly well understood that one of
the most valuable contributions these insti-
tutions can make to the whole cause of edu-
cation is found in the development of indi-
viduality and the trying out of well-
considered experiments. At the same time
it is no more than just and right to the
public that each one of these schools shall
accomplish a minimum of actual work, both
in the three R;s and in the industrial depart-
ments. It is the guaranteeing of this mini-
mum for which the association vouches. The
white schools of the country may be open
to the charge of too great rigidity and
inflexibility. Our schools, having not yet
achieved high standards, are, for the most
part, open to the charge of too much lax-
ness. It is this that the association desires
to correct.
In the next place the association will
endeavor to save the principals of these
several schools from the dreadful waste of
time and talent to which they have hereto-
fore been subjected by rason of the neces-
sity upon them of continually traveling
from one end of the country to the other
for funds.' It proposes to do this by ap-
portioning definite territory to each member
school and organizing campaigns that will
be so intensive as to reach within that area
every American citizen who ought to be
called upon for help. These campaigns will
be conducted on the scientific plan used by
any good farmer in cultivating a plot of
ground. Instead of scattering his efforts
over a wide area, he will concentrate. .
Wherever this principle has been applied
to farming, results have abundantly justi-
fied the method. Large cities like New
York, Philadelphia, Chicago and Boston will
be left open to all the schools that have
supporters there, but even in these in-
stances there will be a definite understand-
ing among the schools that from year to
year strong campaigns will be waged in the
interest of the association as a whole, the
subscriptions resulting to be apportioned
among all the schools according to their
respective payrolls for teachers or on some
other well-considered basis. It will require
on the part of each school the highest
degree of self-control, sincerity and co-
operation to make such a plan successful.
If, however, the several schools can rise to
this it will not merely mark a new epoch
in co-operative educative enterprise among
colored people, but will doubtless win back
to a neglected cause the interest and the
backing which once it enjoyed but has now
largely lost.
These two main ideas, then, govern the
whole scope of the work of the association;
first, the creation of a wider and more
effective interest in educational work among
Negroes by making known as widely as
possible their exact status and, secondly,
the dividing of the whole country into ter-
ritories to which each of these several
schools, through stated periods, shall be
assigned for its soliciting, this soliciting to
be done by intensively organized campaigns.
A third important aim that might be
mentioned is that of discouraging the start-
ing of new schools where there is no obvious
need or means of support, and the wasteful
duplication of work in communities where
two poor, struggling institutions might be
combined to make one good school.-
To carry forward this program there is
need of the immediate opening of a central
office in New York City. For this arrange-
ments have already been made. This office
will be in charge of a high-grade manager,
who will build up an exhaustive bureau of
exact statistics covering the work of every
Negro school in the United States. This
office will also be responsible for organiz-
ing the campaigns mentioned above and
244
THE CRISIS
for wide publicity. It will, finally, be the
headquarters of all the schools of the
association, and through its agencies will
have complete charge of the raising and
apportionment of funds.
- It is gratifying to know that hardly any
business man of standing thus far ap-
proached has failed to endorse these cen-
tral ideas of the association Even those
who .are not certain as to what it may
accomplish feel that it is an experiment
highly worth while, and urge .the necessity
of trying it out. Dr. James H. Dillard, of
the Jeanes and Slater Funds, has stated that
he thinks the enterprise one of the two
most important forward steps he has known
in Negro education in the United States, the
other being the Association of Negro Col-
leges recently formed. Mr. Oswald Garrison
Villard has been an earnest supporter of
the idea, and made possible the first meet-
ing in New York last year. Mr. Clarence
H.	Kelsey, president of the Title Guarantee
and Trust Company, has been equally help-
ful, having offered one-fourth of the money
necessary for the expenses of the central
office during this first year of experiment.
There are in the United States nearly two
hundred schools that ought to be deeply
interested in what this association is at-
tempting. Only eighteen at present are
actually members. If these eighteen can
prove faithful to the great trust to which
they are now committed, there is little doubt
that the present year will show a largely
increased membership.
The next meeting of the association will
be held at the Hobart Library, 416 Lafa-
yette Street, New York City, on Wednesday,
March 25, 1914.
THE STRUGGLE
f& m	By SAMUEL H. BISHOP	@
N the quiet of a Southern teacher, as they sat together, while to and
evening, as the great red fro over the campus walked happy and
sun was falling slowly be- hopeful groups of fresh graduates or
hind a distant line of younger students who felt themselves a year
pines, its light breaking nearer their goal by reason of the events
into shimmering aisles of the day now closing, had dropped those
across, a curiously fore- wonderful words of Matthew Arnold:
shortened landscape, two men were sitting “Docile echoes of the eternal voice, pliant
on the steps leading to the boys’ dormitory organs of the infinite will, such workers
of a school for Negroes. One was a youth are going along with the essential move-
into whose dreamy and saddened eyes the ment of the world; and this is their
horizontal rays of the sun were pouring as strength and their happy and divine' for-
if, robbed of their blinding glare by the tune.” And then he had paraphrased what
dark trunks of the pines and the tender follows: “If the believers in an unrelent-
haze of evening, they would drown the pain ing purpose which never yields to the pres-
in the golden glory of a faultless and sure of a generous love, and of the homely
lingering day. He had been a student in obligations of blood and of circumstance,
the school where he was now a commence- are impatient with us and call us effemi-
ment guest; and the old purposes and ideals uate, though they surpass us in the sphere
nurtured in the place he loved had been of influence by all the superiority of their
surging, from his heart into eyes which genius and energies, yet we go the way
held in their unseeing gaze the delicately the human, race is going; and while they
tinted gray of the capitol dome rising abolish the listening fidelities which con-
among the nearer trees, and onto a tongue stitute social purpose and the organized
that knew the tried and sacred confidence life of man, we may hope we help to make
of his teacher’s ear. The other was the those initial bonds in the multiplication of
teacher who had shared his boyish dreams, which consists the kingdom of God. The
and who, indeed, had inspired the best he altering equilibrium and redistribution of
had hoped and purposed in the dear old life,” he added, “the unexpected pressure
days of school. From the lips of the of that mysterious thing we call duty and
TliE STRUGGLE .
245
the consequent varyings of purpose only
diversify . our opportunities and open
chances to us for new ideals. .No outward
changes of condition in life can keep the
nightingale of its eternal meaning from
singing in the soul and in the visible life
and work of every man who has generously
and of deliberate volition admitted into his
purpose the conditioning purpose by which
God relates him to his fellow man. As
James says, ‘Mere ideals are the cheapest
things in life*; the real significance of life
is the offspring of the marriage of ideals
and a deep-willed social sympathy.”
The relationship of pupil and teacher
had been very close, had had in it on the
one side that wonderful sympathy which
Dr. Arnold had with the boys at Rugby,
and on the other that faith and reverence
which one feels as he sees Stanley sitting
in Rugby chapel with his eyes fixed upon
the teacher who was to him the “image of
high principle and feeling,” or Tom Brown
kneeling at the grave of him who had
opened his eyes to the glory of the human
brotherhood and softened his heart till it
could feel its bond. The teacher, too, knew
what it means to see the broken arcs of
cherished dreams lying like bits of the
spectrum on the shifting waters of the
sea. He had been educated at Codrington
College, the Oxford of the British West
Indies, and had longed with all his soul
to use the ancient ideals of England’s
noblest and richest culture for the realiza-
tion of what he proudly termed the “mes-
sage of his Coromantee fathers,” of whom
Christopher Codrington had said: “There
never was a rascal or coward of that
nation.”
Now he had come to see that a people
must plow before it can reap, must work
with its hands as it thinks with its mind,
must have clean and healthy bodies if it
is to have lucid and far-reaching spiritual
vision, must prove its earthly competence
if it would attain to heavenly fulfilment.
A disciple of the classics of lustrous and
inviolate Greece, of earth-swaying. Rome,
of the Italy of Dante and Petrarch, of
Shakespearean England, of the German
Aufklarung, he had adjusted himself,
though not without some bitter pain, to the
soil-born gospel of twentieth-century Amer-
ica. With Pericles he could now correlate
Knapp, and with Aristotle, Mclver as the
apostles of a civilization which cultivates
universal excellence rather than rewards it
as the gift of the capricious gods to the
few.
It was a hard lesson, but he had learned
it; and he could therefore assuage the pain
of the youth who had yet to learn that it
is not the maintenance detached and
unsullied of ideals, but their use in the
environment of the common life which
constitutes the satisfaction and joy of ex-
istence. Life is not a pearl of great price
for the treasure box, but a many-tentacled
trust for all the varying needs of man. As
they had been sitting together the youth
had told again the story of the iron in his
soul—the tragedy of his people’s isolation
from the gracious amenities, the inner re-
serves, the unrestrained powers and ful-
filments which make the best of American
life beautiful and noble and great; the
grinding obligations they must assume and
the satisfactions they must forego; the
fealties they must respect and the limita-
tions to which they must submit. “My
people are oppressed,” said he; “they need
deliverers—men learned in law and history,
men who will not bow to any prejudice,
men whose character and power will force
the issues of right and justice into the
daily economic and political life of the
South and of the country. Many is the
time I have walked around that gray old
capitol, beautiful in some of its lines, yet
with its ugly dome and dust-stained marble
speaking the ugly wrongs and grimy in-
justices of the political system it houses.
As a boy I was a leader in games and in
debate, the chosen of my fellows—with
their poor liberty of choice. Can my peo-
ple be free while they are shackled and
gagged at the ballot box, when men repre-
sent %them who deny them what makes
representation valid and worthful? Did
not all nature, the spirit of' my race, the
need of my class call upon me to study
law, get power, enter as lawmaker that old
building which has lost its borrowed sunset
glow while we have been looking at it, push
my way to Congress where only my peo-
ple’s wrongs can be righted? You say,
with Matthew Arnold, whom I do not know,
I am going with the essential movement of
the world. Is it the essential movement of
power? Is there not a greater strength, a
diviner fortune than to submit for oneself
or for one’s people to what one knows to
be wrong?”
246
THE CRISIS
The sun had set and the dusk had fallen,
lights presaging the evening gaieties had
sprung from the various buildings on the
grounds, some of the students were packing
for. early departure, and there was a
mingled sense of culmination and disin-
tegration in the air and in the varying
activities of the evening peculiar to the
closing of a school year. “Let us go in,”
said the teacher; and together they went
upstairs and along the corridors, between
rows of trunks in various stages of packing,
to the room where they had so often talked
of life and of its meanings. The youth
flung himself onto the bed as if his re-,
bellious spirit had wearied the body with
its insistent and incessant chafings and
beatings; and as the teacher looked at him
through the dusk a gentle sarcasm crept
jnto his voice, though his words were very
slow and tender, for he feared the boy
might not understand. He took him to the
uninhabited places where the real prophets
and leaders have found their God, to the
region beyond the Jordan where the Naz-
arene first saw the vision of His mission.
He pictured the Christ as the thaumaturge
the boy in his impatience wished to be—
making bread of stones, flying on angels’
wings, felling the eagles and the legions of
Roman power, the world conquered, and
the loud-tongued praises of men, of every
clime; but at the awful cost of pain,
patience, faith, honor and love.
Then the sarcasm vanished and a yearn-
ing took its place. He called to the boy’s
mind how the Master rejected force, how
He set His face toward Jerusalem and
Gallilee and the doubtful issues of an un-
even struggle with a blind and adulterous
generation. “Force and the vulgar arts of
the thaumaturge cannot settle human prob-
lems,” said he so yearningly and so win-
somely that the youth sat erect and
listened as to music across a starlit wat^r.
“Law never brought men freedom; insti--
tutions and forms' of government never
alone inspired the genius or furnished the
guarantees of a noble citizenship; force
never softened hardened hearts or tore the
scales from blinded eyes. The issues of a
people’s life are in the heart of the life
itself, and the remedy of a people’s wrongs
in a character that abashes and makes
wrong both ridiculous and monstrous. The
highest and most productive service to life
is not particular performance but abundant
life. The terms of leadership are not those
of a profession but those of a vital human
soul, and the medium of leadership is the
connected possibility and the wide-reaching
assent which grow out of the order of God.
You,” he said, “failed to make your arrange-
ments for your . law course at Howard;
but you have literary skill, knowledge of
your people’s needs and an unusual bent
for good farming. If it be to your ambi-
tion the via dolorosa to Calvary, is it not
better to farm as you are doing, to teach as
I know you are teaching—at a salary next
to nothing—a rural school which would
have been closed if you had not volun-
teered, to light small torches for the hands
of humble beginners, to inspire efficiency
and home building for a people whose first
needs are of honest usefulness and healthy
homes, than to curse and be cursed in a
battle which does not seem to have been
ordered either of God or of circumstance?
Mark you, I am not defending wrong or
belittling your ambition. Life is always a
battle; but you are in it and you must win.
‘ * 1 Say not the struggle naught availeth,
The labor and the wounds are vain,
The enemy faints not, nor faileth,
And as things have been they remain.
If hopes were dupes, fears may be liars;
It may be, in yon smoke concealed,
Your comrades chase e ’en now the fliers,
And but for you possess the field.
For.while the tired waves vainly breaking,
Seem here no painful inch to gain,
Far back, through creeks and inlets making
Comes silent, flooding in, the main.
And not by eastern windows only,
When daylight comes, comes in the light;
In front, the sun .climbs slow, how slowly,
But westward—look, the land is bright. ’ ”
The summer stars swing silently through
the deep, dark blue of the sky, trunks are
jammed shut in the corridors outside, a
group of boys are singing “Climbing Jacob's
Ladder,” in the distance music and dancing
sound from the assembly hall; and from
the youth on the bed in that darkened
room comes in a whispering sob which con-
ceals a chorus: “Yes, that is life.” As
the master went to his room his heart
thrilled with a joy which was almost alarm;
for it was only that afternoon that while
talking to an ambitious girl of the essen-
tials of a girl’s education she had ejacu-
lated as he paused lest he might weary
her: “That would be good; that would
be life.”
A GAIN the association finds itself on
*** the firing line in Washington. First
came the segregation matter and now the
Smith-Lever bill, which provides for co-
operative agricultural extension work be-
tween the agricultural colleges in the
several States and the United States
Department of Agriculture.
The Smith bill, introduced into the Senate
by Hoke Smith of Georgia, and identical
with the Lever bill, introduced into the
House by Asbury F. Lever of South Caro-
lina, proposes to appropriate the total sum
of $15,120,000 during the next ten years
and thereafter'the sum of $3,000,000 a year
for this agricultural extension work.
Since the bills make no mention of race
whatever, they are apparently fair. Only ex-
perts and those very familiar with the history
of * the color line would grasp the sinister
significance of the provision which allows
the legislatures of the States to name the
college or colleges which are to administer
these funds. In all the Southern States,
except Tennessee, there -are separate agri-
cultural colleges for the education of white
and colored students. This provision would
enable the legislature of any State to give
the entire appropriation for that State to
the white colleges.
The bill was first called to our attention
by our legislative expert in Washington.
Mr. Brinsmade, the attorney for the asso-
ciation, immediately went to Washington.
Before he reached there, however, the bill
had been rushed through the House. This
was a sudden move and made our work
more difficult. Mr. Brinsmade succeeded in
interesting a number of Senators. He
drafted an amendment to safeguard the
interests of the colored farmers which, at
our suggestion, was introduced by Senator
Jones of Washington. To meet the requests
for fuller information on the subject, Mr.
Brinsmade and Dr. Du Bois compiled a
memorandum in support of the amendment.
Copies of this may be secured at head-
quarters for 15 cents each so long as the
supply lasts.
To quote from the memorandum: “The
proposed amendment is calculated to insure
to the colored farmers of the South a share
in the benefits to be derived from the money
appropriated under the act. As the bill
reads without the amendment, the colored
farmers may not receive any of the benefits
in these appropriations. Certainly they
will not receive their fair share.” The
memorandum then shows by detailed
statistics that when the interests of colored
farmers have not been expressly safeguarded
they have received only a small proportion
of their proper share of funds appropriated
for agricultural extension.
To quote again from the memorandum:
“The colored farmer is the last man who
should be deprived of the benefits of the
proposed act.
“A.—If his interests alone are considered,
this is obviously-so. With his poorer oppor-
tunity for acquiring an education, he is at
a distinct disadvantage in his effort to com-
pete with his white neighbor. The reports
show, however, that he has done remark-
ably "well. A slightly larger proportion of
the colored than of the white rural popula-
tion attended at agricultural colleges. It is
those who cannot go to the colleges that
the act is primarily intended to benefit.
Consequently the colored farmers need those
appropriations at least as badly as the
white.
“B.—If the interests of the whole South
are considered, we arrive at the same re-
sults. It is for the interests of the South
that as much as possible be made of its
vast agricultural resources, which are at the
present time so insufficiently developed. A
248
THE CRISIS
large proportion of the farms in the South
are operated by Negroes, either as owners,
part owners, managers, share tenants or
cash tenants. The total value of farm
property operated by Negroes was $1,116,-
641,576, as compared -with $7,855,485,313,
the total value of white farm property. (See
1910 census.) It cannot seriously be urged
that it is for the advantage of the South
that the benefits to be derived from this
bill shall not be shared by a race which
operates $1,116,641,576 worth of farm
property.”
When the bill was debated, Senator Varda-
nian was leader of the fight against the
amendment on the ground that the colored
people themselves wish the money to which
they are entitled distributed by the white
colleges. Not only have the Senators had
the advantage of the facts contained in our
memorandum, but they have been interviewed
personally by Mr. Brinsmade, Dr. Du Bois
and others, so that they did not have the
excuse offered by some of the Representa-
tives, who voted for the bill and then said
that they did not realize what they were
doing. The whole matter was thoroughly
thrashed out in the Senate committee on
agriculture and forestry, which reported the
Smith bill without amendment, and, as one
of the members of this committee admitted,
it was thoroughly understood that the bill
without amendment did not secure to the
colored colleges their fair share of the pro-
posed appropriations.
Just before the Jones amendment was
voted on, Senator Shafroth offered a substi-
tute which placed the decision as to what
colleges should distribute the funds jointly
in the hands of the governor of the State and
the Secretary of Agriculture, instead of in
the hands of the State legislature. Senator
Jones objected that this was not a proper
substitute, but was rather an amendment to
perfect the bill. As such it was vbted on
and adopted. There is no doubt that the
Southern Senators were forced to offer this
amendment by the two days* fight in the
Senate on the Jones amendment.
This amendment is not as fair as the Jones
amendment, but an important point is gained
in that the Federal Government is given
equal power with the States in deciding
what colleges shall administer the funds.
The Jones amendment was then.voted on
and defeated by a vote of 32 to 23. The
vote would certainly have been much closer
had the Shafroth amendment not been previ-,
ously adopted. Certain Senators who had
announced their intention to vote for the
Jones amendment eventually voted against it.
An amendment proposed by Senator
Hitchcock, requiring that in the demonstra-
tion work itself there shall be no race dis-
crimination, was then adopted without roll
call.
If the House does not concur in the
Shafroth and Hitchcock amendments the bill
will go to conference. The South does not
wish a second fi'ght on the race question, and
therefore we have every reason to believe
that the Shafroth amendment will be incor-
porated in the bill as finally passed.
As usual the association is having diffi-
culty in getting publicity for this important
measure. Special letters and a “story”
prepared by a trained newspaper man have
been sent to a large number of papers and
an effort has been made to reach the corre-
spondents of the big dailies in Washington.
Other organizations and friends of our asso-
ciation are trying to help.
The Pennsylvania Abolition Society,
whose president is Mr. Henry W. Wilbur,
our good friend, and whose secretary is
Mr. Ellwood Heacock, also president of
our Philadelphia branch, is circulating an
“appeal for justice,” which it has sent
to members of Congress and to others. This
society is also attempting to get publicity
in the press. Its appeal shows clearly
how the Smith-Lever bill, without the Jones
amendment, violates the amendment to the
Morrill act, which safeguarded the colored
colleges. In commenting further upon the
clause in the Smith-Lever bill, which per-
mits the legislature of any State to desig-
nate the white college as the distributor of
the national fund for education, the appeal
says: “We feel that no such temptation in
the nature of an opportunity should be
placed in the way of any white college in
our country.”
m
MEETINGS.
rT"rHE association has held a number of
A successful meetings in addition to
those mentioned under branches. Lack of
space prevented our noting these in the last
issue of The Crisis.
In Schenectady Mr. Villard addressed a
large and appreciative audience at Union
THE N. A. A. C. P.
249
College. In Jersey City he addressed an
enthusiastic meeting held under the auspices
of the committee of one hundred of Hud-
son County. The president of this com-
mittee is Dr. George E. Cannon.
Protest meetings against segregation were
held in the Mount Olivet Baptist Church,
with Dr. William P. Hayes, Jr., presiding;
in the Church of the Messiah, Dr. John
Haynes Holmes presiding, and in Cooper
Union. The speakers included Miss Oving-
ton, Dr. Du Bois, Mrs. M. C. Lawton,
Mr. Arthur B. Spingarn, Mr. Wilford H.
Smith. The addresses at the Cooper Union
meeting were of an unusually high quality.
Mr. Ben net made a delightful presiding
officer. The speakers were Miss Lillian D.
Wald, head of the Henry Street Settlement,
Dr. Du Bois, who gave his paper on farm
segregation, and Mr. Villard, who made a
most eloquent address, in which he scored
the Smith-Lever bill. Resolutions unani-
mously passed by the meeting were wired
to the President.
On January S Dr. Spingarn left New
York for a Western trip, on which he
visited many of our branches. Space pre-
vents our giving a detailed account of the
series of brilliantly successful meetings
which he addressed. Most enthusiastic let-
ters of appreciation have been received from
all the branches he visited; one of those
just chartered sending in 106 new members
as a result of their meeting. The expenses
of this entire trip were borne by Dr.
Spingarn personally.
At Detroit he was entertained at luncheon
on January 9 by representative colored citi-
zens at the Hotel Pontchartrain (Detroit’s
best hotel, which for the first time on this
occasion disregarded the color line). Among
the white men at this luncheon were
Judge Albert H. Murphy, of the Michigan
Circuit Court, Mr. Frederick Ingram of the
Detroit Charter Commission, and Mr. James
Schermerhorn, of the Detroit Times; Mr.
Francis W. Warren acted as toastmaster.
On the evening of the 9th, Dr. Spingarn
spoke to an audience of over 1,800, Judge
Murphy presiding, and other representative
speakers, white and black, also addressing
the audience.
At Chicago he was the guest of the City
Club, at a luncheon, on the 10th, Mr. Rob-
ert McMurdy presiding and introducing
him. On the night of the 11th he spoke
at the Abraham Lincoln Centre, Chicago, to
an audience of over 2,000. He was intro-
duced by Judge Edward Osgood Brown,
of the Illinois Circuit Court, president of
our local branch; and among the other
speakers were Roger N. Baldwin, secretary
of the Civic League of St. Louis; Dr. C. E.
Bentley, Robert McMurdy, Rev. Jenkin
Lloyd Jones, Charles T. Hallinan and Judge
Julian W. Mack, of the Federal Commerce
Oourt. On the 12th a little luncheon was
arranged for him at the City Club, at which
were present Miss Jane Addams, Dr. Bentley,
William C. Graves, Mr. Allinson, Mr. Halli-
nan, Judge Brown and others, and plans
were discussed for the Chicago branch and
its work during the coming year.
At Quincy he spoke to about 1,200, the
Rev. Dr. Hartley, of the Presbyterian
Church, and Rabbi Kuppin also speaking.
At Kansas City he spoke to over 2,500,
after a reception at which he met the lead-
ing citizens of the colored community. In
the afternoon he had also spoken at the
rooms of the board of public welfare to
the students of its classes in civics (white).
At Topeka he spoke at the First Congre-
gational Church (of which Dr. Sheldon,
author of “In His Steps,” is pastor
emeritus) and was' introduced by Arthur
Capper, Republican-Progressive candidate
for governor of Kansas at the election of
1912. Many of the most distinguished
officials of the State, county and city were
on the platform or in the audience, which
numbered over 1,800. After the meeting a
banquet was tendered to Dr. Spingarn at
the home of James Guy, at which Mr.
Capper and many leading white and col-
ored citizens were present.
At St. Louis he spoke to an audience of
3,000	(many being turned away) on the
evening of the 19th.
At Indianapolis, after a reception at the
local Y. M. C. A., he spoke to an audience
of over 2,500. Rev. Mr. Wicks, of the
Unitarian Church, and Rabbi Feuerlicht
being among the other speakers.
At Cleveland he spoke to over 2,500,
being introduced by Rev. Minot Simons, of
the Unitarian Church, and being followed
by Judge Kennedy and Judge Hadden, of
the probate court.
Dr. Spingarn spoke to a large and repre-
sentative white audience on January 19, at
the City Club of St. Louis, at a luncheon
250
THE CRISIS
in his honor. The president of the club
introduced Rev. John W. Day, of the
Church of the Messiah, who in turn intro-
duced Dr. Spingarn. After speaking of the
signs of a new sentiment and a new leader-
ship in the South regarding the Negro,
Dr. Spingarn devoted himself almost en-
tirely to pointing out that the economic
uplift of the Negro was impossible without
the safeguarding of his civil and political
rights, and ended with a plea for justice
and fair play. Incidentally, he answered
the contention that the Negro vote was
■ corrupt by pointing to the example of
Adams County, O., and other places, where
white communities had shown that the
presence of the Negro has nothing to do
with corruption of the franchise.
The next day the St. Louis Globe-Demo-
crat devoted three paragraphs to the two
speeches, under the heading “Negroes Hear
Spingarn.” After devoting two paragraphs
to the evening speech, which had been
addressed to Negroes, it added the following
paragraph about the afternoon speech,
addressed exclusively to white people:
“Professor Spingarn also addressed the
City Club yesterday afternoon on ‘The Negro
and His Problems/ ‘The Negro, although
he has the right to vote, does not get the
full benefit from his Vote/ said Spingarn.
‘Often he goes to the polls, and instead of
placing his vote where it would be for the
best interests of his people, sells it, receiving
not more than from $3 to $5/ Spingarn
asked that the Negro be given the same
economic, civic and commercial privileges as
the whites.”
This absolute fabrication is-the St. Louis
version of a fifty-minute plea for justice to
the Negro. In Dr. Du Bois’ “Quest of the
Silver Fleece” it is pointed out that the
Southern white man, chivalrous and hon-
orable in his relations with other white
people, does not hesitate to steal, cheat or
lie when dealing with colored people. If
this seems an exaggeration, consider the
case of Dr. Spingarn and the press of
St. Louis.
m
BRANCHES.
Boston.
AT the annual meeting of the Boston
branch Mr. Francis J. Garrison was
re-elected president; Mr. George G. Brad-
ford, treasurer; Mr. Butler R. Wilson,
secretary; Miss Adelene Moffatt and Mrs.
May Hallowell Loud, members of the execu-
tive committee to serve for three years.
On December 22 the Boston branch held
a meeting at the Rush A. M. E. Church.
The speakers were Mr. Cobleigh, Rev.
Christopher R. Eliot and Mr. Isaac Harris.
Mr. Wilson presided.
California.
The Northern California branch has been
doing good work in holding meetings of
protest against segregation. The branch
has recently elected new officers, of which
a full list will be printed as soon as it is
received at headquarters. The work of
the branch is accomplished through several
committees who are endeavoring to organize
the colored people, in the cities about the
bay.
Chicago.
The meeting held by the Chicago branch
has already been mentioned in connection
with Dr. Spingarn’s trip. At the annual
meeting of the branch, January 11, Judge
E.	O. Brown was re-elected president; Mr.
T.	W. Allinson, secretary and treasurer,
and Mr. G. R. Arthur, assistant secretary.
District of Columbia.
On January 16 the District of Columbia
branch held an election, at which the fol-
lowing officers were elected:
President, Mr. Archibald H. Grimke;
treasurer, Mr. G. C. Wilkinson; secretary,
Mr. W. B. Hartgrove; executive committee,
Miss Charlotte E. Hunter, chairman; Mrs.
Julia Layton, Mr. William McCary, Mr.
L.	M. Hershaw, Rev. A. C. Garner, Mr.
Neval H. Thomas.
The chairman of the committee of fifty
and more gave a most interesting report
upon the work of the committee. We
expect to publish this later in The Crisis.
The same evening. a meeting was adver-
tised to be held in True Reformers’ Hall
by the Rev. James L. White, who invited
all citizens to hear a lecture upon the
National Association for the Advancement
of Colored People. Mr. White, in the
notice of his meeting, stated: “I claim
that the National Association for the Ad-
vancement of Colored People is doing more
harm than any organization since the Civil
War, and that the citizens of Washington
are being deceived in their support of the
said organization, and that segregation is
a ghost story.”
THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT
251
The Washington Herald, in commenting
on this, stated that the meeting was held
in the Metropolitan Church in M Street.
The pastor of the Metropolitan Church
made an announcement from his pulpit
that there was not a bit of truth i^ this
statement and that no such meeting had
been held in that church.
The next day it was stated in the Wash-
ington Star that no such meeting had been
held in either place.
On the anniversary of the birth of
Charles Sumner, January 6, the District of
Columbia branch held a remarkable mass
meeting. The speakers were Senator Clapp,
Mr. Thomas Ewing, Mr. Archibald H.
Grimk6, Judge Wendell Phillips Stafford
and Mr. Oswald Garrison Villard. The
Rev. I. N. Ross presided. We have had
many requests to print Mr. Villard’s in-
spiring address. Notice of its publication
will be given later.
Howard University.
The Howard Chapter has commenced its
campaign of organization among colleges
and universities. The officers are: Presi-
dent, S. A. Allen; vice-president, Madre
Penn; secretary, Miss Eulalia Lane; cor-
responding secretary, T. B. Dyett; treas-
urer, George Brice.
Muskogee.
The list of the officers of the Muskogee
branch is as follows: President, J. *E.
Johnson; secretary, W. Scott Brown, Jr.;
treasurer, J. W. Sharpe; corresponding
.secretary, Mrs. G. L. Prince; advisory
board, Farrar L. McCain, Thos. W. Leahy,
John D. Benedict, O. A. Wells, William
Bain.
Seattle.
The Seattle branch, which has just been
chartered, is to be congratulated for the
emancipation celebration which it held at
the Mount Zion Baptist Church New Year’s
night. On the program were the Rev. J. L.
Williams, Mrs. L. A. Graves, Mr. Eugene
Johnson, Mrs. E. Llewellyn, Dr. W. R.
Carter and the mayor of Seattle, Hon.
George F. Cotterill. A feature of the meet-
' ing was three-minute talks by representa-
tives of various States. The Hon. A. R.
Black presided.
Tacoma.
Mention should be made of the organiza-
tion work which is being done by the
Tacoma branch. This was the branch
which first* interested our Seattle members,
and now they have almost perfected an
organization in Portland, Ore.
Branches have been chartered by the
National Association as follows: Cleve-
land, Providence, Seattle, St. Paul, Trenton
and Talladega, Ala. A chapter at Cornell
University has been officially recognized
and will be chartered. Full lists of the
officers of all these branches will be given
in the annual report.
THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT
fgj g§ By JUSTICE WENDELL PHILLIPS STAFFORD gg gg

HERE AS, as is essential to
just government, we recog-
nize	the equality	of all
men before the law, and
hold that it is the duty of
government in its dealings
with	the people to mete
out equal and exact justice to all, of what-
ever nativity, race, .color or persuasion, re-
ligious or political; and it being the
appropriate	object of	legislation to	enact
great	fundamental principles into	law.”
—Preamble to the Civil Rights Act.
The men who at the close of the Civil
War endeavored to secure the fruits of
that great conflict expressed their profound
convictions in three Constitutional Amend-
ments and in the Civil Rights Act. The
first of these amendments, number thirteen,
prohibited slavery. .The second, number
fourteen, forbade the States to discriminate
between the races in regard to civil rights.
The third, number fifteen, forbade the
States to discriminate between the races in
regard to suffrage.
The Civil Rights Act forbade discrimina-
tion between the races at any public place,
such as theatres, hotels, on railroads, steam-
boats, etc. The conviction of the time was
that we were one people, and that all dis-
criminations by State or nation on the
ground of race were inconsistent with the
252
THE CRISIS
true spirit of our government. In their
view the government was no more a white
man’s government than it was a black
man’s government. It was neither. The
language of the act was so broad and
comprehensive that it included in its pro-
hibition the citizens of the various States.
Not only did it forbid the States themselves
to discriminate, but it forbade the citizens
of the States to do so. In this respect it
was held unconstitutional by the Supreme
Court, upon the ground that the Congress
could not deal directly with the citizens of
the States upon this subject but must leave
the States to deal with their own citizens.
Thus, when a case arose in which a colored
person had been discriminated against in a
public place by a citizen of one of the
States, and in one of the States, the court
held that the case was one as to which
Congress had no power to legislate and
that so far as it had attempted to do so, its
attempt was unconstitutional and void. This
objection did not apply, however, to such
acts of discrimination if they were com-
mitted in the Territories, or in the District
of Columbia, or on the high seas, because
it was admitted that the legislative power
of Congress extended to such cases. The
court expressly recognized this distinction
and held the act void in part only, declining
to decide what effect the unconstitutionally
of a part might have upon the remainder
of the act. Many years passed and no case
came to the Supreme Court, in which the
discrimination had occurred under such
circumstances that the validity of the act,
as applying to Federal jurisdiction, could
be tested. Recently such a case has arisen
and been passed upon. A colored woman,
traveling by steamboat on the high seas,
from a port in one State to a port in
another State, was denied equal accommoda-
tions with white passengers solely on the
ground of color, and the discrimination was
challenged. The court promptly overthrew'
what was left of the act, by holding that
being bad . in part it was bad in the whole.
They admitted that Congress had the power
to forbid such an. act of discrimination;
they admitted that it had forbidden it. But
they said that because Congress had at the
same time forbidden people whom they had
no right to forbid, therefore even those
whom they had a right to forbid were not
bound to obey. This result was reached by
applying, and it seems to me by misapply-
ing, a well-settled rule of construction.
That rule is that when an act has been
passed which must stand or fall together,
because the legislature would evidently not
pass^jt at all unless it could pass it as a
whole, then, if one part was beyond the
power of the legislature and must fall, the
rest must fall with it. The court said that
that was the case here—that if Congress had
known that it could not forbid the citizens
of the various States from discriminating
against each other>on the ground of color, it
would not have attempted to forbid the
citizens of the Territories, or other people
subject in this respect to the command of
the United States Congress, from so dis-
criminating. That is the point where, as it
seems to me, the decision breaks down. For
as I have read the history of that period
it is too plain for argument that the Con-
gress that passed the Civil Rights Bill
would have passed the bill just as far as
they had power to pass it. Indeed, it was
their very zeal for equal rights that carried
them beyond the bounds which the court
held existed. Imagine the scorn and con-
tempt with which the decision would have
been received by the men who voted for
that bill, not merely because it overthrew
their work, but even more because it pro-
fessed to do so in futherance of the real
intention of its authors! The suspicion
will arise that the court regarded the act
as the expression of a sentiment and convic-
tion that has passed away, and made use
of this rule of construction to get rid of it.
They knew that no Congress of the present
day would re-enact the law.
There are other points which, if I were
writing for lawyers, I should be glad to
elaborate, but I hesitate to do so for lay
readers lest I should confuse rather than
clarify the subject. To me the case seems
as unsound from a strictly legal standpoint
as it does from the broader view above in-
dicated. The decision is placed upon two
grounds. The first is that the prohibition
is in one general expression and so admits
of no separation, such as to allow it to be
applied to the places over which Congress
had jurisdiction. If it had enumerated the
places, as thus: “In States; in Territories,
in the District of Columbia, on the high
seas,” etc., then the court might have
dropped out the word “States” and left the
SOME MORE BOOKS
253
law in force as to Territories, the District
of Columbia, and the high seas! Is not
this sticking in the bark? Is the mental
concept any different in one case than in
the other? The second is that this is a
penal act and therefore must be construed
strictly, so as to make no one liable to the
penalty unless it was clearly the intention
of the lawmakers that he should be liable.
But this rule yields to the more funda-
mental rule that the principal intention of
the legislature must be effectuated if pos-
sible. Is not the principal intention here
made plain by the preamble and by every
provision of the act itself, namely, to secure
to the oppressed and insulted colored peo-
ple the treatment they were entitled to
receive? And would Congress have hesi-
tated to secure this treatment for as many
as possible, even though they could not
secure it for every single one? The opin-
ion, with cold-blooded indifference, ignores
the warm pulses of humanity that beat in
every word of the Civil Rights Act and
give it life and meaning. The iniquity of
such' a decision is that it tends to destroy
faith in justice, faith in common honesty,
faith in the judgments of courts, and even
faith in God. But let us not lose our faith.
Trouble may be in store, indeed; trouble
must be in store for a nation whose
Supreme Court can thus forget the nation's
ideals of righteousness, and read one of its
noblest enactments by the farthing candle
of a technical rule instead of by the love
of equal rights and justice—the holy light
that flames in every line of the instrument
itself. But whatever troubles may come, and
perhaps through those very troubles and
punishments, justice will triumph in the
end.
The decision marks the lowest point yet
reached by the receding tide of sentiment
in favor of equal civil rights. Let us hope
that it may also mark the lowest point that
will be reached. The work before us is not
to find fault with the court so much as
to create, if possible, a public sentiment in
favor of equality as true and wholesome
as that which was embodied in the law that
has been swept away. When that has been
done the law will be safe in the hands of
any court. Until that is done, even a
righteous decision of the court cannot much
avail to stem the tide of hostile sentiment.
SOME MORE BOOKS

“Facts of Reconstruction.’’ By John R. Lynch.
325 pages. Neale Publishing Co., New York, 1913.
OREMOST in importance
this month comes the long-
awaited reminiscences of
John R. Lynch.
Major Lynch was one of
the half dozen prominent
colored men in the history
of reconstruction, and perhaps more than
any living man knows the truth from the
Negro’s point of view. His purpose in
writing “The Facts of Reconstruction” are
stated clearly in the preface:
“Was the enfranchisement of the black
men at the South by act of Congress a
grave mistake?
“Were the reconstructed State govern-
ments that were organized as a result
thereof a disappointment and a failure?
“Was the Fifteenth Amendment to the
Federal Constitution premature and
unwise?
“An affirmative answer to the above ques-
tions will be found in nearly everything
that has been written about reconstruction
during the last quarter of a century. The
main purpose of this work is to present
the other side.”
The answers fill the book and are most
interesting.. In 1S72 he tells us: “No one
could be found in any party or either race
who was bold enough to express the opinion
that the Congressional plan of reconstruc-
tion was a mistake, or that Negro suffrage
was a failure. To the contrary, it was
admitted by all that the wisdom of both had
been fully tested and clearly vindicated.
The adoption of any other plan would have
resulted in the accomplishment of nothing
but the mere physical abolition of slavery
and the denial of the right of a State to
withdraw from the Union. These would
have been mere abstract propositions, with
no authority vested in the national govern-
ment for their enforcement. The war for
254
THE CRISIS
the Union would have been practically a
failure. The South would have gained
and secured substantially everything for
which it contended exeept the establish-
ment of an independent government. The
black man, therefore, was the saviour of
his country, not only on the field, of battle,
but after the smoke of battle had cleared
away.”
He shows that Negro suffrage had slowly
but surely built up a good State govern-
ment in Mississippi. The last “carpet-bag”
governor “had given the State an excellent
administration. The State judiciary had
been kept up to the high standard estab-
lished by Governor Alcorn. Every dollar
of the public money had been collected and
honestly accounted for. The State was in
a prosperous condition. The rate of taxa-
tion had been greatly reduced, and there
was every prospect of a still further re-
duction before the end of his administra-
tion. But these facts made no difference
to those who were flushed with the victory
they had so easily won.”
And, finally, when the reconstruction gov-
ernment was overthrown and the reform
administration came, we are reminded that
its treasurer promptly stole $315,612.19!
B
* ‘Gouldtown.” By William Steward and T.‘ G.
Steward. 237 pages. Lippincott, Philadelphia.
1913.
Persons interested in fairy tales should
read a true one as set down gravely,
sedately and completely in the story of
“Gouldtown.”
It seems that one of Oliver Cromwell's
majors bought parts of New Jersey from
Berkeley and Carteret and settled there;
but to his mind all did not go well with
him, for this is what he says in his will:
“Item, I do accept against Elizabeth
Adams of having any ye leaste part of my
estate, unless the Lord open here eyes to
see her abominable transgression against*
him, me and her good father, by giving
her true repentance, and forsaking yt
Black yt hath been the ruin of her, and
becoming penitent for her sins; upon yt
condition I do will and require my execu-
tors to settle five hundred acres of land
upon'her.”
It seems that this granddaughter clung
to her black husband. Other mulattoes in
various ways joined the settlement and to-
day this remarkable community still exists.
As the book says:
“Several of the earlier Goulds and
Pierces, as well as Murrays, intermarried
with whites, and members of their imme-
diate offspring went away and lost their
identity, they and their descendants becom-
ing white; while from those who still main-
tained their identity as people of color
there have come many who have reached
distinction, and in whom their native county
shows merited pride.”
m
“Masterpieces of Negro Eloquence.” Edited by
Alice Moore Dunbar. 512 pages. The Bookery
Publishing Co.
The widow of Paul Laurence Dunbar
has edited a valuable volume of orations of
colored men.
There are fifty-one speeches given and
nearly all of the Negro leaders from Doug-
lass to the Grimkes, are represented. Some
orations are rather essays than speeches,
but this, if anything, enhances the value
of the book, which becomes in this way a
commentary of the Negro on his own prob-
lems covering one hundred years.
The work was hurried for publication
during the jubilee year and shows some
proofs of the hurry. There are several bad
slips in proofreading, and it would have
been well to have put little biographical
sketches like the one placed before Doug-
lass' speeches before all the others.
Nevertheless the total result is worth
while, and the message of the whole book is
perhaps summed up in its last paragraph:
“Strange, is it not, my brothers, how
often in America those great watchwords
of human energy—‘Be strong!* ‘Know thy-
self!' ‘Hitch your wagon to a star!'—how
often these die away into dim whispers
when we face these seething millions of
black men? And yet do they not belong
to them? Are they not their heritage as
well as yours? Can they bear burdens
without strength, know without learning
and aspire without ideals? Are you afraid
to let them try? Fear rather in this, our
common fatherland, lest we live to lose
those great watchwords of liberty and op-
portunity which yonder in the eternal hills
their fathers fought with your fathers to
preserve.”
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
255
Gun—very superior. Fitted with
top snap-break, bar side locks, forged
frame, case hardened locks and frames.
Nicely finished, highly polished stock and
fore end. Polished blued steel barrels;
choke bored, 12 Gauge and either 30 or 32
inch barrels. Well balanced and accurate.
A perfect beauty. The same model used by
some of the best shots in the country. We give it
flbselutfgly FREE io Our Agents
All that we require is that you show our
samples and take a few orders for our
special made-to-measure clothes. We
pay highest cash profits and give extra
presents besides. Your choice of 628
valuable premiums—such as Leather Suit
Cases, Musical Instruments, Pipes,
Watches, Sporting Goods, Hats, etc.
Write for elegant free outfit and full jxirticulars
SPENCER MEAD CO. Dept. 745. CHICAGO
I
I
A
I
I
8
i
i
i
Big Pay for Easy Work
If Yon Live in a Small Town
We want 5000 accents — 5000 bright, young men
will(ng to hustle and earn $5.00 to 115.00 a day
selling our fine hand-■mode-to-measure clothes.
This throws open onegood job in every community
or town of not over 10,000 people.
To the first maw In your town who
writes us, will be given the'first ovportnnxt
to got our Complete Sample Out-
fit Free. Yon need no experience, but
start right out making money—52.00 to 19.00
profit on evert/ suit yon sell. Wholesale
Prices for Baits 17.98 to 128 00—Pants
CL48 to SL50. We prepay Ota postage
express on every shxpnsent.
Every garment la made-to-order
and strictly hand tailored. Satis-
faction Guaranteed or Your
Money Back.
To prove to yon the tmequaled
quality of oar tailoring, we will let «.
you order a Sample Suit or even a
pair of pants at the wholesale price.
Remember, wo want only om agent In each town.
Someone elee from your town may write an to-
morrow—ho don’t delay—but mail your letter today.
The Chicago Tailors' Association
D«pt. 264 V— Brw awd Market St*.. CHICAGO
WANTED—ONE MAN OB WOMAN IN EVERY
locality to start a Candy Kitchen. Best paying
small business on earth. Few dollars starts yon.
Get away from wage slavery. Write for particu-
lars. Native Herbarium Co., Ambler, Pa.
WANTED
Agents for The Crisis. Dignified
work. Address: 70 Fifth Avenue,
New York.
A WEEK and EXPENSES
That's the money you can get this year. I mean it. I want County Sales Managers
quick, men or women who believe In the square deal, who will go into partnership with
me. No capital or experience needed. My folding Bath Tub has taken the country by
storm. 8olves the bathing prohlem. No plumbing, no water works required. Full length
bath In any room. Folds In small roll, handy as an umbrella. I tell you It's great!
GREAT I Rivals $100 bath room. Now listen I I want YOU to handle your county.
I'll furnish demonstrating tub free. I’m positive—absolutely certain—you can get bigger
money In a week with me than you ever made In a month before—I KNOW IT!
TWO SALES A DAY--------$300 A MONTH
get—every month. Needed In every home, badly wanted, eagerly bought,
fadlltlea for all the people. Take the orders right and left. Quick
rofita. Look at these men. Kunkle. Ohio, received $240 first week;
5120 In two days; Corrigan. New York. $114 In 60 hours: Newton.
California. $60 In three days. You can do as welL TWO
SALES A DAY MEANS $300 A MONTH. The work Is very
easy, pleasant, permanent, fascinating. It means a business
of your own.
I gran^ credit, furnish sample, help you out. back you up—
don't doubt, don't hesitate, don't hold back. You cannot
lose. My other men are building homes, bank accounts, so
can you. Act. then, quick. SEND NO MONEY. Just name
___	__	on penny post card for free tub offer. Hustle I
YOU!
YESYOU
CAN GET IT
H.	S. ROBINSON
President
190 Vance St., Toledo, O.
.DEMONSTRATING
TUB FREE
Canadian Address: Walkervllle, Ont., Canada.
Mention The Crisis
256
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
SCHOOL OF BEAUTY CULTURE AND HAIM DRESSING
Kelsey’s TT«ir Dressing, Hair Grower, Scalp Tonic and Pace Lotion have no oqaoL. Price, 50c each*
Guaranteed under Pood and Drug Act, June SO, 1906.
Manicuring, Shampooing, Hair Dressing, Marcel Wav-
ing, Facial and Body Massage, Hair Making, Chiropody,
etc., scientifically taught. Unlimited practice In parlor
day and night. Pupils taught at home, If desired.
Diplomas. Spoclal Summer Conrso, 67.50 up. Send for
booklet. Mmo. A. Carter Kelsey, Gen’l Instr.; Dr. Samuel
A. Kelsey, Chiropodist, President and Gen’l Manager.
KELSEY’S
Telephone, Momlngslde 8162
143 West 131st St.
NEW YORK
MUTUAL TEACHERS9
AGENCY
Recommends teachers for schools; secures
employment for teachers. Blanks and
information furnished free on application.
1335 T Street, N. W. Washington, D. C.
No. 24 Southern Buggy
Highest Grade
A Value Unequaled. Soldon Ji.oo
Profit Margin
Factory to User
Write for prices
and other styles.
Send for catalogue.
C. R. PATTERSON
& SONS.
Greenfield, Ohio
Largest Negro Carriage concern In the United States.
Star! a Mail Order Bnsiness and Make Money
You can operate in your own home during spare
time. The parcel post has opened up the doors of
opportunity to YOU. Others are making $20 to
$500 a week. Why can’t you f By our method
you can start with. $5 and up. We offer you thirty
live, money-making mail order plans. You can
make 95 cents profit on every dollar order. We
furnish circulars, printed matter and place your
advertising at lowest rateB. Send 10 cents for
complete outfit. Do it to-day—Nowl
MAIL DEALERS WHOLESALE HOUSE
617 Dearborn Street	Chicago, HL
A^ain Ahead
As usual we are ahead of thereat. Ahead In style
—ahead la quality—ahead In designs—ahead in price
and ahead In terms. Sofaraheod
that you will bebchlnd the times
If you d * not wear one of our
new, noboy suits this spring.
Get One for Nothing
Our new scheme Is a dandy.
You get your suit without ono
cent of cost. The nobbiest, most
up-to-date suit a mRn ever put
on his bock. Outright up to the
minute with stylo sticking out
all over It. Make
SlOtoSlSoiy
Our plan makes thlB easy.
Simply send us a postal and we
will exrlaln it all and send you
the FREE Belf-measurlng blanks,
sampt s, fashion chart, etc. Wo
prepay express on everything.
Write us now.
PARAGON TAILORING CO.
Dept. 251	Chicago
WANTED
500 Negro families (farmers preferred)
to settle on FREE Government Lands in
Chaves County, New Mexico. Blackdom is
a Negro colony. Fertile soil, ideal climate.
No “Jim Crow” Laws. For information
write
JAS. HAROLD COLEMAN
Blackdom -	-	-	-	New Mexico
$25.00 PER WEEK
may be made in commissions by parties handling
“History of Negro Soldiers in Sponish-American
War’’ combined with “History of the Negro Race.”
400 pageB, 50 illustrations. Price $1.25 net.
Address:	E. A. JOHNSON
164 Nassau Street ----- New York
REGALIA
A Race Enterprise
Manufacturing Badges,
Banners and Supplies
for all Fraternal and
Church Societies. Cata-
logue upon request.
CENTRAL BEG ALIA CO.
Jos. *L. Jones, Pros.
N. E. Cor. 8th and Plum Sts.
Cincinnati, Ohio
COLORED MEN
WANTED TO PREPARE AS
SLEEPING-CAR AND TRAIN
PORTERS.
No experience necessary. Posi-
tions pay $65 to $100 a month.
Steady work. New York roads.
PasseB and uniforms furnished when
necessary. Write now.
I* RY. C. I., Dept. 19,. Indianapolis, Ind.
Buy Real Estate in “Twin Cities.”
You can double your money by an investment of
city and suburban property in and around
Minneapolis. I have some good investments in new
towns in Western Canada. Communicate with
me.
B. MAXEY McDEW
802 Sykes Block	Minneapolis, Minn.
Mention The Crisis
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
257
MILES M. WEBB
Beautiful Colored Doll Free
Chicago’s Expert Photographer
I specialize in every phase of artistic picture
making. Send me your photos for enlargements.
Prices reasonable. Satisfaction guaranteed. 'Phone
6688 Douglass.
WEBB STTJDIO
3619 State Street	Chicago, 111.
The Loyal Knights and
Ladies of Malachites
Grand Supreme
Governor
is incorporated under the
laws of the District of Col-
umbia. Its Object is to com-
bine the Negroes of the
world for their mutual ad-
vancement along indus-
trial and commercial lines.
It also stands for the full
enjoyment by the Negro of
his civil and political rights.
This movement is interna-
tional in itsscope; wehave
lodges not only in the United States but in
Jamaica, B. W. I* Colon, Bocas delToro, Pan-
ama (Canal Zone) and Costa Rica. It is a dark
day for the Negro and he must come together.
Race movements have failed because our peo-
ple were told that by contributing thereto the
race only would be benefited, but no tangible
individual benefits were offered. By our plan
the member pays 35c. per month in the Asso-
ciation and receives $4.00 per week sick ben-
efits and $100 at death. We not only look
after the race but each individual member as
well. Abigconvention is soon to be held here.
We want a lodge in every village, hamlet and
town and a delegate to be sent tp this conven-
tion. Organizers wanted everywhere. For
full particulars, write
KNIGHTS OF MALACHITES
1111 You St. N.W. Washington, D. C. A
AGENTS WANTED—Big seller. $3 to $5 per
day. Costs you from 10 to 20 cents; sells for
35 cents and up. Sample free for the asking.
G. A. AEBURY & CO., P. O. Box 414, Bristol, Pa.
This Negro doll has light
brown color, long black
hair, jointed limbs, sleep-
ing eyes. For selling our
artistic Negro post cards
and other beautiful cards.
Large assortment; very
cheap. Agents and deal-
ers are making big
money handling them.
Terms free. Sample of
all post cards sent post-
paid for 15 cents.
J. GRIFFITH
ART COMPANY
36-38 Beekman St.
New York
Was Jesns a Negro
with Woolly Hair ?
Webb’s books and pictures prove
it and show it by the Bible. A
picture, 12x18, of Jesus with
woolly hair, and His Holy Angels
at His second coming, and a book
with Biblical references, extending
from Genesis to Revelations, prov-
ing the fact. All for $1.50 and
postage prepaid. The book alone
is worth its price.
The following are comments upon the same:
"I beg to say, after hearing Elder Webb on
the subject, that the blood of the Negro coursed
through the veins of Jesus and Solomon. I am
frank to say that I have seldom, if ever, enjoyed,
such an intellectual treat. The position he
assumed as the subject of his lecture touching the
Hametic blood and race is difficult and requires a
radical knowledge of Biblical and historical lore,
ut I am pleased to say that he not only shows
himself an expert, but the master1 of the situation,
and I commend him to the ministry and churches
of our race of every denomination.”
Truly,
(Signed) Bishop H. M. TURNER.
"The evidence submitted by Elder Webb tending to prove
that the Saviour of mankind was a black man seems to be
sufficient to put thoso who oppose the proposition upon their
proof. Now that tho chain of evidence presented by Mr.
Webb appears so complete. It Is strange that none of the
delvers In the Biblical records have not advanced the sensa-
tional proposition before. Not only was Christ a Negro,
but It seems that Solomon, who has been held up through
all the ages as the personification of wisdom, had Ethiopian
blood In his veins, also."—Seattle "Dally Times."
Price $1.50 for picture and book. Send money
order or express order to James M. Webb, 3519
State Street, Chicago, 111., in the care of the Webb
Studio.
James Webb
WANTED—Colored carriage smiths,
woodworkers, trimmers and paint-
ers. Sober, experienced men only.
Address: THE CRISIS, 70 Fifth
Avenue, New York City.
Mention The Crisis
258
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
LEGAL DIRECTORY
Residence 2546 Michigan	Office Phone
Bell Phone E-2161	Home 68 .Main
C. H. CALLOWAY
Attorney and Gonna el or-at-Law
Notary Publio
117 W. 6th Street	Kansas City, Mo.
Telephones:	{^ntral6104.W
HARRY E. DAVIS
Attorney-at-Law	Notary Public
1607 Williamson Building -	Cleveland, O.
Office L. D. Telephone 8297 Market
Residence L. D. Telephone 6277-M Market
GEORGE A. DOUGLAS
Counselor-at-Law
Rooms 613-614, Metropolitan Building
113 Market St., Cor. Washington, Newark, N. J.
General Practice	Notary Publio
WILLIAM R. MORRIS
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
1020 Metropolitan Life Building
Minneapolis -	--	--	--	- Minn.
BROWN S. SMITH
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Offices: Suite 610, Sykes Block
Minneapolis ........ Minn.
GEORGE W. MITCHELL
Attorney-at-Law
908 Walnut Street
Philadelphia ..	......................Pa.
Tel. 2026 Fort Hill	Cable Address, Epben
EDGAR P. BENJAMIN
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
34 8chool Street -	- .	-	-	Boston, Mass.
Telephone Connection
W. Ashbie Hawkins	George W. F. McMechen
HAWKINS & McMECHEN
Attorneys-at-Law
21 East Saratoga Street -	-	- Baltimore, Md.
Phones: Office, Bell 4059; New 420-M
Residence, New 783-A
THOS. E. GREENE, JR.
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Notary Public
Maloney Block	-	-	- Youngstown, Ohio
William H. Austin	Edmund O. Austin
Law Offices of
AUSTIN & AUSTIN
St. Paul Building, 220 Broadway, New York
Suite 7—H. I, J. K •
Telephones: 7400, 5365, 5366 Cortlandt
B.	F. BOOTH
Attorney-at-Law
57 N. Second Street
Memphis................................Tenn.
Mention
PERSONAL CARDS
Telephone 6277 Morningside
DR. GERTRUDE E. CURTIS
Surgeon Dentist
188 W. 135th Street -	-	-	- New York City
Telephone Connection
R. W. FEARING
Electrician
Contracting, Repairing, Motors, Electric and
Gas Fixtures
Electrician recent Emancipation Exposition in
New York
86 Marion Street .... Brooklyn, N. Y.
Telephone Columbus 8935	Open All Night
RODNEY DADE & BROS.
Undertakers and Embalmers
Notary Public
Funeral Parlor and Chapel Free
Licensed Lady EmlSalmer	Prompt Service
266 West 63d Street ...	- New York City
Between Broadway and 8th Avenue
MME. FANNIE BELLE DE KNIGHT
Dramatic and Dialect Reader. Engagements so-
licited. Students given special training in the
Delsarte Method. Instruction also 'given in Dialect.
English Grammar and Rhetoric.
Terms Reasonable.
Telephone Mornipgside 9045
Studio: 231 W. 134th St.	Now York City
TANDY & FOSTER
Architects
1931 Broadway	New York
Telephone 5368 Columbus
H.	HENRY HARRIS
Architect
Corner 8th and Princess Streets
Wilmington ------ N. C.
WILLIAM L. BELL
Architect
138^4 Auburn Avenue -	- Atlanta, Ga.
JUNIOR MECHANICAL DRAFTSMAN desires
position. Persistent, resourceful and efficient.
Reference. Address DRAFT, care of THE CRISIS.
J. E. ORMES
ACCOUNTANT
Audits	Systems
Business information by mail. Open for
engagements July and August
Box 26, Wilberforce University
Wilberforce, O.
FOR SALE
Adjoining the campus of Fisk University,
a modern house of ten rooms, with water,
gas. bath and steam heat: lpt 50x175 feet.
Fruit and shade trees; small fish pond and
chicken houses. Price $5,000. Address:
H. H. WRIGHT
Fisk University - Nashville, Tenn.
E Crisis
Th& Art of Printing
AS EXEMPLIFIED IN OUR WORK EMBODIES THE FOL-
LOWING POINTS OF MERIT:
| (a) Neat
1.	Stationery K (6) Attractive
( (c) Quality
f (a) Polite
2.	Form	< (b) Business
( (c) Social
f (a) Artistic
3.	Workmanship ■< (b) Correct
( (c) Prompt
We Print THE CRISIS
ROBERT N. WOOD, Printing and Engraving
202 EAST 99th STREET Telephone: Lenox 6667	NEW YORK
	
Homes in Long Island! Few people realize the wonderful possibilities of Long Island property, the rapid growth of that section of the city and its wonderful future. WE ARE SELLING GOOD HOMES IN CORONA, with all improvements, only five cents carfare to New York. Corona is in the very center of Greater New York, and in a few months will be reached by the rapid transit lines of Manhattan, giving to the people of that section of the city a five-cent carfare to any section of Manhattan. The only place within thirty minutes of Times Square, Grand Central Station or the Pennsylvania Station, where the man of small means can get a modern home with all improvements at a moderate cost. We would be glad to have you visit Corona at our expense. Corona is one of the highest elevations in New York City, has an excellent car service, good schools, excellent water supply and the best place in all New York for children. For full particulars as to price and terms address L. S. REED & COMPANY 142 Hunter Avenue	Long Island City Some choice investment lots for $50 on reasonable terms	
Mention The Crisis
A Selected List of Books
HB) PRICE INCLUDES	POSTAGE	£0
The Quest of the Silver Fleece. W. E. B. Du Bois..$1.50
House Behind the Cedars. Charles W. Chesnutt...... 1.65
Hazel. Mary White Ovington........................ 1.08
Autobiography of an ex-Colored Man. Anonymous..... 1.40
The Testing Fire. Alexander Corkey................ 1.35
Lyrics of Lowly Life. Paul Laurence Dunbar........ 1.40
Marrow of Tradition. Charles W. Chesnutt.......... 1.65
The Sport of the Gods. Paul Laurence Dunbar....... 1.65
Norris Wright Cuney. Maud Cuney Hare.............. 1-50
A Narrative of the Negro. Lelia Amos Pendleton... 1.65
Souls of Black Folk. W. E. B. Du Bois............ 1.35
Race Adjustment. Kelly Miller.....................2.15
History of the Negro. B. G. Brawley............... 1-35
Half a Man. Mary White Ovington................... 1.12
Mind of Primitive Man. Franz Boas................. 1-65
Aftermath of Slavery. William Sinclair............ 1.65
John Brown. W. E. B. Du Bois...................... 1-45
Facts of Reconstruction. John R. Lynch........... 1.65
Story of the Negro. Booker T. Washington......... 3.25
Flower o’ the Peach. Percival Gibbon............. 1.45
The Colored Inventor. Henry E* Baker...............15
A Child’s Story of Dunbar. Julia L. Henderson......25
Address
THE CRISIS
70 Fifth Avenue.........New York City
PUBLIC OPINION
ALL OVER THE WORLD
ENDORSES THE
Underwood
IN PREFERENCE TO ANY
OTHER TYPEWRITER
It has proved itself by winning all
world’s awards for merit
It holds all records for SPEED—
ACCURACY—STABILITY
It holds the Elliott-Cresson medal
awarded by the Franklin Institute
of Pennsylvania — the highest
mechanical award
These Are Features No Other
Writing Machine Can Offer
UNDERWOOD
“The Machine You Will Eventually Buy”
Mention The Crisis
THE CRISIS
A RECORD OF THE DARKER RACES
PUBLISHED BY THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE, AT 70 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK CITY
Conducted by
W. E. BURGHARDT DU BOIS
AUGUSTUS GRAJTVrLLE DILL, Business Manager
Contents for April, 1914
PICTURES
COVER. Photograph from life. Copyrighted by W. L. Brockman.
(For reproductions write THE CRISIS.)
MEN’S BIBLE CLASS, METROPOLITAN A. M. E. CHURCH,
Page
WASHINGTON, D. C.............................. 272
COLORED RAILWAY MAIL CLERKS...................... 276
ARTICLES
SPRING. A fcoem. By William Moore................. 288
THE NEW ABOLITION AND ITS WORK.................... 289
OUR LEGAL BUREAU. By Chapin Brinsmade............ 291
JIMMY. A Story. By French Wilson................. 293
THE NEGRO AS A LAND OWNER. By Henry W. Wilbur..... 297
IN MOSLEM SPAIN. By Joseph F. Gould.............. 298
DEPARTMENTS
ALONG THE COLOR LINE............................. 267
MEN OF THE MONTH................................. 273
OPINION........................................   277
EDITORIAL.......................................  285
SONG AND STORY.........................:.......... 300
BURDEN..........................................  302
TEN CENTS A COPY; ONE DOLLAR A YEAR
FOREIGN SUBSCRIPTIONS TWENTY-FIVE CENTS EXTRA
RENEWALS:	When a subscription blank is attached to this page a renewal of your
subscription is desired. The date of the expiration of your subscription will be found on the
wrapper.
CHANGE OF ADDRESS: The address of a subscriber can be changed as often as desired.
In ordering a change of address, both the old and the new address must be given. Two weeks’
notice is reouired.
MANUSCRIPTS and drawings relating to colored people are desired. They must be accom-
panied by return postage. If found unavailable they will be returned.
Entered as Second-class Matter in the Post Office at ff/eto York, N. Y.
264
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
Atlanta University
Is beautifully located In the Oity of Atlanta, Ga.
The courses of study include High School, Nor-
mal School and College, with manual training
and domestic science. Among the teachers are
graduates of Yale, Harvard, Dartmouth, Smith
and Wellesley. Forty-two years of successful
work have been completed. Students come from
all parts of the South. Graduates are almost
universally successful.
For further information address
President EDWARD T. WARE
ATLANTA, GA.
Knoxville College
Beautiful Situation. Healthful Location.
The Best Moral and Spiritual Environment.
A Splendid Intellectual Atmosphere.
Noted for Honest and Thorough Work.
Offers full courses in the following departments:
College, Normal, High School, Grammar School and
Industrial.
Good water, steam heat, electric lights, good
drainage. Expenses very reasonable.
Opportunity for Self-help.
Fall Term Begins September, 1914.
For information address
President R. W. McGRANAHAN
KNOXVILLE, TENN.
The Agricultural and
Mechanical College
Maintained by the govern-
ments of North Carolina and of
the United States. Open all the
year round. For males only.
Spring term began March 2,
1914. Board, lodging and tuition,
$7 per month. Best opportunities
for Negro youth. Night school
for indigent hut ambitious young
men. For catalog or further
information, address
PRESIDENT DUDLEY
A.	& M. College Greensboro, N. C.
LINCOLN INSTITUTE
Jefferson City, Missouri
Founded by the Negro soldiers of
the 64th and 65th Regiments. Sup-
ported by the State of Missouri.
One of the best-equipped schools
in the country for the education of
Negro boys and girls. Normal,
Collegiate, Agricultural and Indus-
trial Courses. Normal diplomas
carrying with them the degree B. Pd.
are life certificates to teach in the
public schools of Missouri. The
degree A. B. conferred upon those
who complete the collegiate course.
Four teachers of Music: Voice Cul-
ture, Piano, Violin, Band and
Orchestra Practice. Elocution and
Athletics.
Board $9.50 a month. Tuition $3.00 tho
year to Missouri students. All others pay
$13.00 a year. Catalog free.
B. F. ALLEN, A. M., LL. D.
President.
Morehouse College
(Formerly Atlanta Baptist College)
ATLANTA, GA.
College, Academy, Divinity School
An institution famous within recent years
for its emphasis on all sides of manly
development—the only institution in the far
South devoted solely to the education of
Negro young men.
Graduates given high ranking by
greatest Northern universities. Debating,
Y. M. C. A., athletics, all live features.
For information address
JOHN HOPE, President
ST. MARY’S SCHOOL
An Episcopal boarding and day school
for girls, under the direction of the Sisters
of St. Mary. Address:
THE SISTER-IN-CHARGE
611 N. 43d St.	W. Philadelphia, Pa.
Fisk University
NASHVILLE, TENN.
Founded 1866	C. W. Morrow, Dean
Thorough Literary, Scientific, Educa-
tional and Social Science Courses. Pioneer
in Negro music. Special study in Negro
history.
Ideal and sanitary buildings and grounds.
Well-equipped Science building.
Christian home life.
High standards of independent manhood
and womanhood.
Mention Th» C*isis
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
265
cIke National Religious Training School
“I cordially commend the school’s interest and needs to all who believe
in the Negro race and in our obligation to help promote its intellectual,
moral and religious uplift.”
—Rf.v. Dr. Charles H. Parkhurst, New York City.
IT IS MORE THAN A MERE SCHOOL
IT IS A COMMUNITY OF SERVICE AND UPLIFT
Its influence is destined to be felt in all sections of the country in improved
Negro community life wherever our trained workers locate.
Settlement workers, missionaries for home and foreign mission fields,
Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A. secretaries and district nurses receive a compre-
hensive grasp of their studies under a Wellesley graduate and experienced
co-workers and actual every-day practice through the school's SOCIAL
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
We aim also to create a better qualified ministry.
Industrial training, advanced literary branches, business school.
Thirty-two acres; ten modern buildings; healthful location.
We can accommodate a few more earnest, ambitious students.
Communities requiring social workers should write us.
For catalog and detailed information address:
PRESIDENT JAMES E. SHEPARD
National Religious Training School - -- -- -- -- - Durham, N. C.
The school has no endowment fund and must raise a yearly maintenance
fund of .$15,000 for running expenses. Won’t you help us this year?
atyp CHjeytmj ©raining i^rljnnl fnr ©rarl|rra
CHEYNEY, PENNSYLVANIA
Under the management of the Society of Friends. Beautifully
located, healthful, well appointed, and within easy reach of a great
variety of educational institutions, public and private, extending from
West Chester to Philadelphia; representing a wide range of educa-
tional problems and practice.
This school offers to young colored men and women who have a
reasonable secondary school preparation, and who earnestly desire
to become teachers, carefully graded courses in academic work,
domestic science, domestic art, manual crafts and agriculture. For
teachers of experience and intending teachers it offers also a six
weeks* summer-school course, extending from July 1 to August 12.
Tuition is free. Board, lodging, heat, light and laundry privileges
are offered for nine months for $100. The charge for the same
during the summer-school course is $15. Write for particulars to
LESLIE PINCKNEY HILL, Principal
Mention The Cuiis
266.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
OF INTEREST TO VOCAL STUDENTS
TONE-PLACING AND
VOICE- DEVELOPMENT
Points explained, viz.: Breath
in Singing, Trying the Voice, the
Soprano, the Mezzo-Soprano, the
Contralto, Tenor Logglero or High
Tenor, the Baritone, the Bass.
Parts of the Vocal Apparatus, the
Mouth, the Tongue, Position When
Practising, Position When Singing.
How to Practice, Good Rules for
Singing.
Comment from the world-renowned conductor of
the Paulist Choir of Chicago, 111., whose choir hns
just received the first prize awarded at the 8ing
ing Contest held in Paris on May 25, 1912:
"Dear Mr. Tinsley:
"I Lake great pleasure In commending your eery useful and
succinctly written book on 'Tone-Plaoing and Voles-Develop-
aient.' Your own appreciation of the psychology of singing
and the fundamental principles of the art you hare cleverly
reduced to a simple system.	Cordially yours,
"Father WILLIAM J. FINN, C. 8. P..
Director Paulist Choristers of Chicago."
From "Musical Courier." N. Y.: "A very practical little
book la ’Tone-Placing and Voice-Development,’ by Pedro T.
Tlnaley. It con Ulna some very excellent material and vocal
exercises, and should be In the hands of all vocal students."
Prom "Music News." Chicago, I1L:	"Accordingly his
’Prartloal Method of Singing’ la a most concise snd practical
little manual, containing many valuable vocal exercise*. It
oannot fail to be helpful to all ambitious vocal students."
HELPED HIM GREATLY
”8ince I practised your exercises of ‘Tone-Placing
and Voice-Develdpment’ my voice is more resonant
than it has been for years. It seems to me that I
am getting a new voice.” Prof. John T. Layton.
Director Coleridge-Taylor Musical Society, 1722 10th
8t., N. W., Washington, D. 0.
PRICE $1.00
Address the publisher: Pedro T. Tinsley, 6448
Drexel Ave., Chicago, 111.; or Clayton F. Summy,
64 E. Van Buren St., or Lyon & Healy, Adams
and Wabash Ave., Chicago, 111.
Agents Are Making $10.00 Per Day
and more selling our famous Negro picture, “A
Joyful Welcome Into Heaven,” the finest painting
ever produced with the Negro as a subject. Semi-
religiouB. Sells at sight. Send 15 cents in stamps
or coin for 30-ceht sample and agent’s terms.
THE DOUGLAS SPECIALTIES COMPANY
3648 Vernon Aye.	Dept. K	Chicago, 111.
RELIABLE, LIVE,
RESPONSIBLE MEN
who can sell real estate can MAKE MORE
than $200 PER MONTH acting as
AGENTS for the sale of our properties in
-MUSKOGEE and TAFT, OKLAHOMA.
The real coming country where there are
opportunities and openings for all. Write
us to-rday, giving your age and experience,
and we will offer you a FINE PROPOSI-
TION WHICH WILL MAKE YOU
MONEY. Address
REEVES REALTY CO.
Department C
217 Flynn-Ames Bldg,	Muskogee, Okla.
Facts of Reconstruction
By MAJOR JOHN R. LYNCH
In . this book Mnjor Lynch presents the
renders and thinkers of the present genera-
tion with accurate, reliable and impartial
information, bnsed upon his knowledge and
experience, about Reconstruction, the most
important and eventful epoch in our country’s
history.
Major Lynch has been prominently before
the public during tho Inst forty years. He
wns a member of Congress in 1876-7 and
was an active participant in the decision of
the closely contested election between Hnyes
and Tildcn for the Presidency of the United
States. Many interesting points in that con-
test not heretofore published will be found
in this book.
As a member of Congress, member of the
National Republican Committee, auditor for
the Navy Department, a member of many
National Republican Conventions, over one of
which he presided as temporary chairman,
Major Lynch was brought in contact with
many of the most prominent and influential
men of the country. The chapters giving an
account of his interviews with Presidents
Grant and Cleveland, and with Messrs. Blaine.
Lamar and Gresham, are both interesting and
instructive. The book ought to be in the
library of every home.
Price, net $1.60. By mall, $1.66.
Address:
MAJOR JOHN R. LYNCH
4321 Forestville Ave.	Chicago, 111.
H^VADay
rum ■ FOR YOUR
SPARE TIME
AGENTS WANTED
Hundreds of oar agents are making: $ lO a day in
their sporo time. Many ore beating that and are
getting their own clothes FREE. Wo are dead
euro you can do it. Such a thing os failure is
utterly impossible with our now and complete
outfit which wo send you—all charges prepaid.
Our fine line of stylish, well made, carefully fin-
ished clothes, guaranteed fit—bests everything
ever offered. Lowest prices. Our Outfit is magnif-
icent—our styles and fashions Bimply wonderful.
Strong selling plans that bring tho orders and
Big Money for you every week, In hard cash.
Pants $2J*
I UP Suits $9S2
Can you beat It? Be a PROGRESS agent. Earn
$5 to SIO a day In your apara time while doing
other work. Send no money. Everything iB FREE.
No experience necessary. Got the Outfit, order
blanks, stationery, tape-lino and everything necessary
to start you In a Big Monty Making Bualnasi
your own. Write today. Bo ready for the lar
Spring business ever known. land the early
orders in bunches.
ProgressTalloiinKCo^Dept. 683 .ChloafxT
Mention The Crisis
THE CRISIS
Vol. 7—No. 6
APRIL, 1914
^\Hiolc No. 42
MUSIC AND ART.
N February 12, at the Parkway Build-
ing, Philadelphia, Pa., the Bel-canto
Singers, a chorus composed of well-known
artists of Philadelphia, gave a concert under
the direction of Mr. William A. Cowderey.
The chorus was recently established for
the purpose of maintaining a vocal scholar-
ship in one of the leading conservatories of
music for talented young singers of color.
The committee is composed of six represen-
tative citizens, with Hon. George H. White
treasurer of the scholarship fund.
Mrs. Marie Burton-Hyram, dramatic
soprano, of Chicago, 111., gave a song recital
on February 23 in Philadelphia, Pa. Mrs.
Hyram is a graduate of the Chicago Music
College.
<J On February 6, at Musical Fund Hall,
the Business Clerks’ Association, of Phila-
delphia, Pa., presented the “Legend of the
Flaming Arrow,” a music drama in three
acts written by W. H. Cole.
Mr. Wm. Speights, tenor, of Washington,
D.	C., teacher of voice at the Washington
Conservatory of Music, was heard in a song
recital at Trinity A. M. E. Church on Janu-
ary 23 at Pittsburgh, Pa.
<3 Joao do Rego Barros, of Brazil, is making
an effort to preserve the native Brazilian
songs. At the Sao Pedro Theatre, in Febru-
ary, a concert was given to encourage this
attempt, and was a great success for the
poets and national composers who were rep-
resented on the program.
Miss. Victoria Kemp, a senior of the
Central High School, at Minneapolis, Minn.,
has contributed several drawings to the
daily newspapers, and is among the prize
winners in one of the papers for the
children’s page. The December high-school
Spectator bore a frontispiece drawn by Miss
Kemp.
fj The annual “pre-Lenten” given under the
direction of Mr. Walter Craig was held on
February 19 in New York City. The
soloists were Mme. Katharine Skeene-
Mitchell, of Cleveland, 0., soprano; Mr
Clark, of Pittsburgh, Pa., baritone; Mr.
Hill, of Philadelphia, Pa., violinist, and Mr.
Richard B. Harrison, of Chicago, 111., reader.
The enjoyment of the program was enhanced
by the fine accompaniment of Mr. Melville
Charlton.
The Negro Choral Society of Greater New
York had its initial appearance at Carnegie
Hall on February 11. An effort is being
made to make this organization a permanent
connection of the Music School Settlement
for Colored People. Mr. Harry T. Burleigh
and Mr. Will Marion Cook assisted in
organizing the society.
<1 On February 5, at St. Paul’s parish house,
at Erie, Pa., a song recital was given by
Mr. Harry T. Burleigh under the direction
of the Viorous Club. The assisting artists
were Mrs. Louise Alsten Burleigh, reader,
and Mrs. C. C. Colby, accompanist.
<3 The fiftieth anniversary of the death of
Stephen Foster, the composer of “Old Black
Joe,” “The Old Folks at Home” and other
American songs of like sentiment, was com-
memorated by a concert gi\ en by the Modern
Musical Society of New York, at Aeolian
268
THE CRISIS
Hall, on February 13. A chorus under the
direction of Benjamin Lanbord, an orchestra
and Maggie Teyte, soprano of grand opera
and concert fame, were engaged for the
occasion. Henry F. Gilbert’s “Humoresque,”
in which Negro melodies with banjo effects
are employed, was one of the interesting
numbers on the program.
The distinguished pianist, Mr. R.
Augustus Lawson, of Hartford, Conn., ap-
peared with the Hartford Philharmonic
Orchestra on January 29 at their second
concert of the season. Leopold Godowsky
was the piano soloist. Mr. Lawson played
the harp parts in the “Reverie,” on the
piano—a Debussy number transcribed by
Mr. Prutting, the conductor. Mr. Lawson
had the distinction a year ago of appearing
as piano soloist with the orchestra.
•J The Howard University dramatic club
presented Sir Edward Bulwer-Lytton’s
“Richelieu” at the Howard Theatre, Wash-
ington, D. C., on February 21, before a
capacity house. The histrionic ability dis-
played by Mr. L. A. Howard, ’14, as Car-
dinal Richelieu, and Mr. C. E. Lane, ’14,
as Chevalier de Mauprat, is deserving of
special mention.
The Prairie View Chorus, of the Texas
State Normal School for Colored Youth,
sang in Houston, Tex., early in February
for the benefit of the proposed general hos-
pital. The chorus, which numbers' 115, is
directed by Miss Wilhelmina Patterson. The
program was divided between Negro folk
songs and compositions of colored composers.
Mrs. George Brackett Rice, of Brookline,
Mass., following her usual custom of observ-
ing Lincoln Day, held, on February 12, a
“Lincoln Day” reception at her home in
Brookline, Mass. The program for the
pleasure of the guests included a short ad-
dress by Rev. Charles F. Dole, D. D., of
the Unitarian Church of Jamaica Plain, the
reading of poems and unpublished family
letters of Lincoln by Dr. Frank C. Richard-
son, the singing of appropriate selections
by a quartet composed of Mrs. Alice Bates
Rice, soprano; Mrs. Rice, the hostess, con-
tralto; George J. Parker, tenor, and Dr.
George B. Rice, bass. Cornet solo by Miss
Anna Wise, with Mme. Edith Noyes Greene
accompanist, and baritone solo by Mr. Wm.
H. Richardson, of Boston, assisted by Mrs.
Maude Cuney Hare at the piano. An inter-
esting feature of the reception was the
exhibit of Mrs. Rice’s large collection of
Lincoln mementoes. Mrs. Rice was assisted
in her hospitality by Mrs. Eugene N. Foss,
wife of ex-Governor Foss, of Massachusetts,
and other ladies of social prominence.
It is rare that Negro music gets so favor-
able mention and presentation as was the
case in the recent Lincoln-week celebration
* at the John Wanamaker store in New
York City. Alexander Russell, the concert
director, spoke in glowing terms of the place
of the Negro in American music. A chorus
of twenty-five voices, picked from the Negro
employees of the Wanamaker store, sang
their folk songs under the direction of
Daisy R. Tapley, with Mrs. Tapley at the
pianoforte and Mr. Russell at the organ.
Mrs. Tapley was especially pleasing in
her solo work from Negro composers. An
orchestra of thirty pieces, also chosen from
Negro employees of the Wanamaker store,
was another worthy feature of the program.
Cl A concert was given on February 28, at
the Howard Theatre, Washington, D. C.,
by the Folk-song Sihgers, under the direction
of the conductor-composer, Mr. Will Marion
Cook. The chorus was organized early in
the season by Mrs. Harriet Gibbs-Marshall,
director of the Washington Conservatory of
Music, for the cultivation of the singing of
Negro folk music. Mr. Cook had as assistant
conductors Mr. Reese Europe and Mr.
Harry T. Burleigh, of New York, with Miss
Mary Europe, the excellent accompanist, of
Washington, at the piano. The soloists were
Mme. Abbie Mitchell, soprano; Miss Lottie
Wallace, contralto, and Mr. Harry T. Bur-
leigh, baritone. The purity and sweetness of
Miss Wallace’s voice, added to her unaffected
stage bearing, gave much pleasure to an
enthusiastic audience. The program consisted
of Negro folk songs, characteristic songs by
Will Marion Cook, modern songs and selec-
tions from the operas by Mr. Burleigh.
<1 The third annual concert of Negro music,
under the auspices and for the benefit of the
Music School Settlement for Colored People,
of the city of New York, was held on
March 11 at Carnegie Hall. Mr. Harry T.
Burleigh, baritone, and Miss Abbie Mitchell,
soprano, were the soloists.
Mr. Rosamond Johnson sang, and the
Negro Symphony Orchestra, under the direc-
tion of James Reese Europe, and a chorus
of eighty voices, conducted by Will Marion
Cook and Harry T. Burleigh, furnished the
ni
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
269
other numbers on the program. All'of the
selections were by Negro composers. The
annual prizes for composition given by the
Music School Settlement were awarded to
Carl Diton and R. Nathaniel Dett.
SOCIAL UPLIFT.
HP HE report of the work of the Young
A Women’s Christian Association for the
past year shows that six new secretaries have
been employed; there have been two large
successful building campaigns and more than
1,500	members have been added. The Kansas
City association, which has been established
less than a year, began this year with $300
in the treasury and recently received a testi-
monial of $87 from the teachers in the city.
The organization of girls’ work in most of
the associations has had good results. *
<3 The Kaufmann department store, in Pitts-
burgh, Pa., in which colored men were
recently employed to run the elevators, has
installed forty colored men as waiters in the
large dining room.
<J The Players’ Club, a white dramatic
organization of Atlanta, Ga., presented a
play during the w^ek of February 23, the
proceeds of which will be used to build a
hospital for colored people suffering with
contagious diseases.
Q When a huge wildcat had been found on
a farm adjoining the village of Stephenson,
Va., Ernest Jones, a young colored man,
was the only one to volunteer to capture the
animal. After a desperate battle between
the man and the wildcat, in which Jones’
gloves were torn off and he was badly
scratched, the animal was overpowered and
caged.
<1 During the two weeks beginning March
23 objects relating to the history and con-
dition of Liberia will be exhibited at the
Historical Society Building in Chicago.
<J The Francis E. W. Harper Club, of An-
sonia, Conn., a branch of the Northeastern
Federation of Women’s Clubs, pays for
yearly subscriptions to The Crisis for the
three public libraries in that city.
During the six years that the colored
branch of the Louisville Free Public Library
has been established the attendance has been
280,941 and the total number of books drawn
has been 258,438.
<1 Mrs. Lizzie Reid, a colored woman, saved
the lives of two little white children who
were playing on the railroad tracks in
Greensboro, N. C. A freight train was
coming unnoticed by the children and Mrs.
Reid,, dropping her bundles, ran and jerked
them off of the track just as the train
lumbered by.
<3 Walter B. Wright, a colored man, is
secretary to the president of the New York,
Chicago and St. Louis Railway Company.
<3 In spite of the long-continued fight of
the wealthy residents of Riverdale, N. Y.,
for the exclusion of all colored people,-
several of the white churches have estab-
lished Sunday-school classes for colored
children from the orphan asylum.
<3 Julius Rosenwald will be responsible for
one-fourth of the annual budget of the Wen-
dell Phillips Social Settlement in. Chicago,
provided that colored people are among the
contributors to the remainder of the budget.
Q The Union Rescue Home of New York
City is to give unfortunate colored girls a
good environment, at least for a little while,
and then to procure work for them in proper
places and at living wages. Twenty-four
new cases were received during the month
of January and sixteen cases were sent out.
Miss Grace Campbell is in charge.
President Wilson received the Knights of
the Khorassan on the first day of the
golden jubilee celebration of the Knights,
of Pythias, which began in Washington on
February 19.
MEETINGS.
A LARGE number of colored newspaper
men attended the midwinter session
of the executive committee of the Negro Press
Association, held in Nashville, Tenn., Febru-
ary 13-14. Plans were made for the annual
meeting at Muskogee in August, and many
subjects, such as advertising, plate service,
etc., were discussed.
A meeting was held on February 17, at
McCoy Hall, Johns Hopkins University, for
the purpose of familiarizing the people of
Baltimore with the work of Hampton Insti-
tute. Several of the speakers, among whom
were Dr. Frissel, Dr. G. A. Griffiths and
Major Moten, took occasion to protest against
segregation and point out its many evils.
On February 18 the sixteenth annual
farmers’ conference of Georgia convened in
Savannah. The meetings were held in the
State Industrial College.
270
THE CRISIS
<3 The council of bishops of the African
Methodist Church met in Atlanta on Feb-
ruary 4.
Q Governor Dunne, in an address before a
colored audience celebrating Lincoln’s Birth-
day, declared that he intended to do all in
his power to bring about political equality
for them.
A meeting was held at the Robert Gould
Shaw House on the Sunday following
Lincoln’s Birthday to protest against segre-
gation in the Federal departments at Wash-
ington. Mr. Rolfe Cobleigh, of the Congre-
gationalist, stated the facts of segregation,
Mr. Moorfield Storey urged all factions to
unite in the cause of justice and Dr. Du
Bois told of the work of the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored
People. Other speakers were Miss Maria
L. Baldwin and Dr. Francis H. Rowley.
<3 The second world conference will be held
in Paris in 1915. Among the subjects dis-
cussed will be race discrimination, methods
of promoting an amicable interracial spirit
in the universities and in the press, and co-
operation of organizations interested in
friendship among peoples.
EDUCATION.
rT"rHE National Kindergarten Association
has recently established a demonstra-
tion kindergarten for colored children in
Chattanooga, Tenn. The kindergarten will
be temporarily supported by Miss Bessie
Locke, of New York, in memory of her
mother.
<3 An industrial school for colored Catholics
in Lafayette, Tex., costing $30,000, has been
completed.
Boynton, Va., has a new modern school
building for colored children.
*3 The late Mrs. Francis A. Hackley, who
was head of the boys’ school at Tarrytown,
N. Y., bequeathed $5,000 to Manassas
Industrial School for Colored Youths and
the same amount to the Fort Valley Indus-
trial School.
€J Col. George W. Breckenridge, of San
Antonio, Tex., will give $35,000 to Guada-
lupe College, at Seguin, Tex., conditional
upon the school raising $10,000.
Q The report of, the board of education of
Kansas City, Mo., says that each colored
student costs the public $41.54 while only
$39.66 is spent for each white child.
<3 Courses in methods of teaching agricul-
ture, home economics and the common school
branches will be given at the Florida A. and
M.	College from June 15 to August 1.
<3 A tract of about eighteen acres of land
has been acquired in San Antonio, Tex.,
upon which an industrial school for Negroes
will be built.
POLITICAL.
rTfHE President has reappointed Robert
H. Terrell as justice of the municipal
court of the District of Columbia. His ap-
pointment has not yet been confirmed by the
Senate.
<1 George W. Dawley, a colored politician
of Philadelphia, has been appointed clerk in
the municipal court of that city. This is
said to be the first appointment of a colored
man to that position.
ECONOMICS.
HTHE Wage Earners’ Loan and Invest-
ment Company of Georgia has com-
pleted arrangements for a new $40,000 build-
ing in Savannah, Ga. The contract for the
building has been given to the Pharrow
Construction Company, a colored concern,
of Atlanta, Ga.
<3 Mr. Stewart, a colored real-estate dealer
in Evansville, Ind., will place a 56-lot plat
on the market soon and will contract to build
on the lots when they are sold. These lots
are only a few minutes’ walk from a car
line and the plat will be known as Stewart’s-
Enlargement.
<3 The Hardrick Brothers are the colored
owners of a large grocery store in Spring-
field, Mo. The firm employs ten clerks, one
bookkeeper, one cashier and four delivery
men and caters to a large white and colored
patronage.
<3 Negroes in New York are said to be
making plans for the erection of a hotel for
colored people in Harlem.
On January 15 .the Enterprise Building
and Loan Association was incorporated
under the laws of the State of South Caro-
lina by a company of colored men of Charles-
ton, S. C.
<3 In Ellis County, Tex., the colored popula-
tion has increased at the rate of more than
4,000	in ten years. This section is an
excellent farming country and the land is
assessed at a higher rate than any other in
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
271
that section of the country. White farmers
seem disturbed because Negroes are acquir-
ing some of this excellent land.
THE CHURCH.
YOUNG men’s Bible class of 100 mem-
■** bers meets weekly at the Metropoli-
tan A. M. E. Church, Washington, D. C.,
under the leadership of the Rev. I. N. Ross,
the pastor; Lewis E. Johnson, secretary of
the Y. M. C. A.; E. W. Harrison and M. J.
Key. The class has studied and discussed
current topics and has contributed during the
year over $135 to charitable work.
Colored Methodists have contributed
$40,000 in cash and $60,000 in subscriptions
during the past year as a jubilee gift to the
Freedmen’s Aid Society. There are still nine
conferences to meet and report. Many of
the schools under the society will have new
buildings and improved facilities.
THE GHETTO.
Y^TTA LEVENTHAL, a 13-year-old
**• schoolgirl, of Brooklyn, N. Y., failed
to pass in her examinations, was afraid to
go home and remained out. all night. When
she was found, dirty and torn, the. next
morning she claimed that she had been kid-
napped and mistreated by some colored men.
Under the cross questioning of an officer,
however, she finally confessed that she had
not been molested at all, but had slept ip a
doorway all night because she 'was afraid
to go home. A similar case, and one which
might have had very serious results, was
that of a farmer’s wife in Chestertown, Md.,
who, in order to keep ber husband home
nights, claimed that she had .been attacked
bv a Negro. She smeared the bloqd. of a
chicken around the place to’make’ her story
seem real, but finally admitted that it was all
untrue.
<3 It is reported that not only the mail .car-
riers, but all the colored men employed in
general postal service have been dismissed
fmm the postoffice in Americus, Ga.
<3 The Seamen’s ^ Church. Institute in New
York City is called “A Harbor for Seamen
and Boatmen of the World.” Tn spite of'this
the assistant superintendent, Rev. C. IP.
Deems, has stated that Indians and Negroes
are barred because the white sailors /object
to them. Recently Arthur' R. Stamen; .an
Indian, who has be$n a sailor for five years,
was refused admittance into the institute.
<3 Mr. W. B. Windsor, a colored citizen of
Greensboro, N. C., bought a home in a
white neighborhood, but when he attempted
to occupy it the white occupants of the
block demanded that he move and protested
to the city commissioners. A segregation ordi-
nance was passed and put into effect im-
mediately and Mr. Windsor was compelled
to sell his home at a loss of $400.
^ The mayor of Boston has ordered that all
discrimination against Negroes in municipal
gymnasiums, baths, etc., must be stopped.
CRIME.
rTT HE following lynchings of Negroes have
taken place since the last account:
<3 At Leland, Miss., Samuel Petty, charged
with killing a white sheriff, was shot to death
and his body was burned.
<3 At Love Station, Miss., Buck Johnson,
accused of wounding a white man, was taken
from the train which was carrying him to
prison and lynched.
<3 Word comes to us from one who has
made personal inquiry that the two Negroes
who were lynched in Mulberry, Fla., for
cutting a man some weeks ago were not
guilty. The wounded man exonerated the
two men, saying that a Greek had done the
cutting." ,The colored men were released from
jail and the next night a mob formed and
lynched them.
<J Two colored men and one white man were
killed in a race riot near Robinsonville,
Miss. The white man whq was killed was
the leader of a posse sent to arrest
colored men assembled at the house of a
Negro. The posse fired and continued to fire
until ammunition gave out and then they
retired. The next day bloodhounds were
sent out on the trail of the Negroes and
ran down two. One died from his wounds
and the other, whose name or connection
with the riot was not known, was killed by
the posse.
Joseph Zitz, a Hungarian, has been sen-
tenced to no less, than two years and no
more than four for criminal assault upon
Elizabeth Jeter, a 14-year-old colored girl
.of Tungsbridge, N. Y.
Cf S. S. Robinson, a Negro, of Fort Madison,
la.,, has been sentenced to ten years in the
penitentiary for a theft amounting to 94c.
fl The Mexican lieutenant who killed a
cqlored ex-United States soldier has^ been
found gudty! and shot.
MEN’8 BIBLE CLASS, METROPOLITAN A. M E. CHURCH, WASHINGTON,

AN ELECTRICAL ENGINEER.
TAURENCE DeWJTT SIMMONS, a
young man 33 years old, holds a
responsible position in his profession. He
was born in New Orleans, La., and received
his education at Talladega College, Alabama,
graduating in 1903. Upon graduation b^e
immediately took up mechanical engineering
at the Sheffield Scientific School of Yale
University, from which he was graduated in
1906.
He was employed by the General Electric
Company, of Schenectady, N. Y., and has
remained there ever since with frequent pro-
motions. From 1906 to 1908 he was em-
ployed in the experimental turbine depart-
ment, doing research and experimental work
THE LATE EARL EDWARD FINCH.
on steam turbines and steam meters; from
that time to 1910 he was in the turbine
engineering department, and for the past
three years has been engineer in the con-
sulting engineering department.
' a
AN EARNEST LITE.
EARL EDWARD FINCH was born in
Marion, O., February 28, 1877. He
was graduated from the Bellefontaine high
school with first honors. He sought to enter
Wilberforce University and asked for work,
saying: "You just:must give me something
to do; I cannot attend school unless I work.”
He was graduated in 1900, and finally
LAURENCE DEWITT SIMMONS.
274
THE CRISIS
attended the University of Chicago for four
summer quarters, graduating from the arts
course magna cum laude in 1909. He was
a wide reader and careful student and his
paper at the races congress in London, 1911,
brought him much sincere praise.
He became a professor and dean of the
college department of Wilberforce and gave
his young life to the work. Often his salary
was not paid, his work received scanty
recognition and petty jealousies embittered
his soul. His young wife died and left a
lonely baby. .
Yet the man never faltered. With splen-
did sacrifice and unswerving loyalty he
forged on and did splendid work for the
students and for the community. At last
the baby sickened. He went to nurse him,
caught the same fever and died at the age
of 36.
A CITY COUNCILMAN.
A WELL WISHER.
JOHN OLIVER HOPKINS was born in
18S6 at Chestertown, Md., and reared
in Wilmington, Del. He attended Howard
High School, leaving in the second year to
enter the Philadelphia College of Pharmacy,
from which school he was graduated in 1908.
He was early noted for thrift and industry,
ROBERT CURTIS OGDEN.
and during his school life he had the largest
paper route in the city. After graduating
he opened a drug store in partnership with
Dr. Conwell Banton, in 1909, and this is now
the most successful and prosperous Negro
business enterprise in the city. He is also
proprietor of a vaudeville theatre, which
does a good business. He was married in
1909 to Miss Josephine Fisher, and has
two children. In June, 1913, he was elected
to the city council from the sixth ward by
an overwhelming majority, and is its
youngest member. He is the second Negro
to sit in the council. During his term in office
he has already secured a public. bathhouse
for Negroes and a Negro detective on the
> police force.
m
T.T is difficult for a Negro before whom
the visipn of race ideals stands to write
of Robert* Curtis Ogden. The facts of his
life are simple: He was born ip Phila-
delphia in 1836. He did not attend college,
but went into business and eventually became
a member of the firm of John Wanamaker.
He died in August, 1913. .
JOHN OLIVER HOPKINS.
MEN OF THE MONTH
275
Mr. Ogden’s greatest work was accom-
plished as the president of the board of
trustees of Hampton Institute and as
founder of the “Ogden parties” of Northern
and Southern whites who annually took
journeys into the South.
These things were worth doing:	Mr.
Ogden added over $2,000,000 to Hampton’s
endowment; he founded the Southern Edu-
cation Board; but he did both these things
and especially the latter at a great and
serious sacrifice. We doubt if he was
conscious of the sacrifice. Mr. Ogden looked
on the Negro as an incomplete man. He
was willing to help him and he thought he
wanted the Negro to help himself. But he
did not. A self-conscious, self-helping
Negro was beyond Mr. Ogden’s conception.
Such a phenomenon irritated him unreason-
ably. He wanted Negroes to be satisfied and
do well in the place which he was sure they
must and on the whole ought io occupy. He
could not sympathize with the revolt of
honest far-seeing men against such caste.
The result was that the white South cap-
tured Mr. Ogden. He saw their side of the
race problem an.c( strongly sympathized with
them. The Southern Education Board
capie to be a movement *lfor white people
only,” and the color line appeared in his
interests in* new and hitherto unheard-of
form.
How shall the Negro race judge such s
man? He was sincere and unselfish. He
wanted the right. But he lacked vision—he
lacked human understanding. He did great
good, but he also did great harm.
m
A LIAR.
rTfHE Crisis is so eager to. record the
■** achievements pf Negroes, and par-
ticularly young Negroes, that sometimes it
errs. In the case of Joseph Eareira we must
confess to have been victims of astonishing
deception. The case was reported to us by
a Philadelphia professional man of unim-
peachable standing who himself collected the
data for the article in the February number.
He now writes us: “I regret to have to
report to you that my entire account of
young Fareira’s remarkable career in the
Boys’ Central High School here was all
false. Of course I had every reason to be-
lieve that what I wrote was the truth. This
young fellow had not only fooled me and his
numerous friends, but he bad fooled his
parents and his sister.
“For three and a half years he has been
leaving home regularly for school in the
morning and returning promptly in the
evening. He managed, somehow, to secure
blanks for reports. These he has been filling
"out himself and showing them -to his parents
regularly. Not only that, he has brought new
books home regularly, also drawings in
geometry and trigonometry and has con-
stantly reported names and conversations that
went on in the classes at the school.
“The commencement for the midyear sec-
tion of the school was held Friday. Young
Fareira had sent out numerous invitations
to his friends and had received presents from
dozens of them. He even wenr so far as to
issue tickets for the commencement. The
tickets were written in his own handwriting,
but he explained this fact to his parents,
saying that the authorities were dilatory in
getting out the tickets and programs and
consequently each student had been allowed
so many seats and were authorized to issue
their own tickets. Hus parents and sister
went to the commencement with these tickets,
also Mrs. ------, who was his kindergarten
teacher in Germantown. They were all dum-
founded upon reaching the school to be
informed that their ‘ tickets were no gOQd.
When they sought the principal of the high
school they were informed that young
Fareira had- not been in the high-» school
since June. 1911-.
“His mother is prostrated and his .-.family
is simply paralyzed by the awful humiliation'.
The matter has not reached the press as yet.
I do not know whether you think it advis-
able to correct the statement in the next
issue of The Crisis. It may do us more
harm than good.”
The Crisis has no fear of the truth.
m
MALL CLERKS.
'V\THO are the persons against whom so
strenuous effort has been made in
the railway mail service recently? Mr.
Burleson wishes to reduce them to menial
service. Mr. Stephens is* segregating them
in the South by giving the whites the best
runs. Mr. Edwards wisties to eliminate
them from the civil service entirely. From
fejjjpTj HTT1 XT CTULJiU111*1r|—11
276
THE CRISIS
such facts most persons would conclude that
these clerks must be personally the most
objectionable kind of folk. It is character-
istic of the Negro “problem” that the con-
twenty-one own or are buying real estate,
and the average assessed value of these hold-
ings is $2,700; thirty-two have families; all
belong to civic organizations; one, Mr.
trary is true. For example, there are fifty-
two colored mail clerks training out of St.
Ixmis. Only one has less than a high-school
education; fourteen have college degrees;
William Humphries, has the best examina-
tion record of any clerk in the United States,
having to his credit twenty-one examinations
of 100 per cent. each.
SOME POLITICAL ECHOES.
rJTHERE are signs that the Republican
party, out of power and severely put
to it for defense, is beginning to note the
Democratic asset in the “Solid South” with
something of the same nervous interest that
the English Liberals showed in their remarks
on the House of Lords. The Pittsburgh
Gazette-Times, indeed, gets real sarcastic and
says:
“In all Southern States, while the Negro
is theoretically protected by* the Federal Con-
stitution to and from and at the ballot box,
the protection is an iridescent unreality, un-
perceivable and non-existent in practice. It
was in these States that President Wilson
was given popular majorities of the recorded
vote. In other States the electors were won
for him by mere pluralities, and in the whole
nation he received a mere minority of the
popular vote. Only in the ‘sweet, sunny
South/ where the Negro was first kept from
the ballot box by the persuasive shotgun and
then legislated away from it notwithstanding
the Constitution of the United States, did the
election r’eturns show a ‘popular uprising’
for Wilson.”
The editor, animadverting to the proposed
woman’s suffrage amendment, points out
President Wilson’s dependence on the South:
“How could he plead for enfranchisement
of white and colored sisters with a Congress
yoked by men who have disfranchised hun-
dreds of thousands of colored brethren, first
by violence and then by legislation which
skilfully evades the terms of the supreme
organic law? To do so would have been a
slap in the face of the persons upon whom
he has relied and expects to rely for the
success of his legislative policies and his
administration.”
This same woman-suffrage matter has, as
The Crisis predicted, led to a widespread
discussion of Negro suffrage, North and
South. The Boston Advertiser and the New
York World have wrestled merrily with the
problem. Says the former:
“In attempting to warn the women to cease
troubling Congress, lest disaster befall them,
the World goes on to point out that the only
time that the nation departed from the
principle of State control of the franchise
it reopened the issue of the Civil War and
created new causes for race hatred and race
strife, which still perplex it, despite the fact
that Southern constitutions have practically
nullified the Fifteenth Amendment. The
warning is given that if an equal-suffrage
amendment to the Constitution were secured
by its advocates, it ‘would not be long before
some of the States began to enact grand-
mother clauses, to disfranchise women, like
the grandfather clauses by which Negroes are
disfranchised in the South.’ So the moral
is drawn that ‘the Democratic majority in
respect to equal suffrage is standing on the
solid ground of the Constitution and 125
years of experience.’
“It seems to us that this goes pretty far
in defense of national dishonesty. The
women are warned to desist from troubling
Congress, lest Congress disfranchises them,
as it has consented to the disfranchisement
of the Negroes. But if the sentiment of the
nation should demand the enforcement of
the constitutional provision for the penalty
of such disfranchisement, there would be no
disfranchisement. Is this not a plain hint
to the suffragists that they cannot expect
national recognition, until they force Con-
gress to obey the Constitution, which demands
that the representation of every State, which
disfranchises any of its citizens, shall be re-
duced in the House of Representatives and
in the Electoral College?”
The Augusta (Ga.) Chronicle sees several
disquieting symptoms:
“The Macon Telegraph holds that ‘votes
for Negro women will mean votes for Negro
men, the abolition of the present restric-
278
THE CRISIS
tious—an uninspiring prospect in view of the
fact that the Negroes have a majority in
two Southern States and in many counties
of all the Southern States/ Senator B. R.
Tillman takes about the same view of the
matter.
“Southern women who have allied them-
selves with the suffragette movement main-
tain that the Southern -Negro woman will not
expect to vote. But the Telegraph does not
rest the matter there, and turns to the
‘men's league/ saying:
“ ‘But the members of the “men's league”
must know that many years were required
to reach even a temporary solution of the
problem of the Negro man's vote, and they
ought to know that for the problem of the
Negro woman's vote there will be no solution
at all—against the shrill protest of Northern
woman suffragist teachers from Maine to
California.'
“There is in many things before the public
now much for the people of the South to
well deliberate. Direct elections of United
States Senators, including the Bristow
amendment, has its dangers. So has the
proposition of direct presidential primaries,
the forerunner (as already pointed .out) of
elections of Presidents by direct Vote. So
is there danger in the enfranchisement of
the Negro women in the South, carrying with
it, as the Telegraph suggests, ballot rights
for Negro men in the Southern States not
now enjoyed. A pretty good suggestion just
now, when ‘the South is in the saddle,' is,
‘Go slowly.' ”
St. Luke’s Herald, edited by a sturdy
Virginia colored business woman, declares
that:
“The Negro has not even as yet realized
the value and the importance of the ballot.
We have been taught to eschew the ballot;
but the first thing that the foreigner is taught
as soon as he gets here is to learn how to use
the ballot, even if it be in a dumb, automatic
way.
“The women of the world are demanding
and receiving the ballot; they are battling
for it in every civilized country. The white
women in the United States, rich and poor,
high and low, educated and uneducated, are
working for the ballot—save the white women
of .the South. .In the South white women
want to join their sisters, but they are afraid
lesLin striving for the ballot for themselves
they should in some way help the Negro
woman."
The Boston Advertiser* returns again and
again to the fray in its attempt to force
moral issues on the Republican party. It
declares the Democratic party's treatment of
the Negro in the South is simply barbarous:
“For that matter, the record of the Pro-
gressive party is just as bad. It has been put
on record (against the protests of many
honest, sincere Progressives, it is true) in
favor of the policy of militarism; the policy
of spending on the show and the ‘graft' of
the war materials trust, hundreds of millions
wrung from the pay of all American wage
earners. It has placed itself on record in
favor of the disfranchisement of the Ameri-
can Negro, in far more public and determined
fashion than the Democratic party has done.
In California it has gone on record in favor
of other kinds of race discrimination, founded
on no other test than ancestry, and excluding
even the ablest men of Asiatic races.”
Some Democrats are refusing to be cata-
logued with Negro haters, and the Maryland
editor who tried do put Governor Baldwin
on record succeeded beyond his desire:
“I am not in favor of repealing the
Fifteenth Amendment to the United States,”
writes the governor.
“The Negro is a citizen of the United
States and of the State in which he may
reside. The grant of suffrage to a citizen
ought not, in my judgment, to be predicted
on his color, but on his capacity for using
his vote with intelligence and fidelity to his
duty to his country.
“Such intelligence may reasonably be in-
ferred as a general rule, from ability to read
the English language. I am in favor of such
a test in every State. Wherever it is im-
posed the State has secured itself from the
control of the uneducated. Educated Negroes
can be trusted with a share of political power
more safely than illiterate white men.”
m
THE FORTNER BILL.
^ 19 HE South Carolina bill to “prevent the
possibility of equality between the
races” by driving white teachers out of
colored schools and other similar measures
have provoked a storm even in the South.
The Lexington (Ky.) Herald cries:
“South Carolina was a glorious State;
South Carolina is a glorious State; but by all
that's holy, the good people of South Carolina
ought to take hold of their State government.
The impossible Blease is a blot on the splen-
OPINION
279
did history of the Palmetto State. Those
who follow his lead deserve, as they will in
time receive, the condemnation of the better
people of the South, irrespective of color.
To defeat Hampton and Butler, and the type
of gentleman-statesmen of whom they were
representative, Tillman and his followers
sowed the dragons’ teeth, which in the fertile
soil of prejudice fructified and grew, until
to-day there is a harvest of blind passion and
brutal prejudice rampant in the State that
for years was in the forefront of American
civilization.”
Various changes are rung on this theme
of the moral deserts of the aristocrats and
the “poor white trash.”
“Hampton and his friends, when they
were in power,” says the Greensboro (N. C.)
News, “scourged the ‘vulgar’ with whips.
Never did Augustales ride more ruthlessly
over the herd than did the aristocratic
regime, led by Hampton, trample under foot
every consideration of right and justice
toward hill billies. The wood-hat boys simply
did not exist, politically, and that was all
there was to it.
“Like every other aristocracy, they stored
up vials of wrath against the days of wrath,
foolishly bent upon making more swift and
terrible their own undoing. When Tillman
finally struck the match he had the mine
ready laid to his hand; all that was neces-
sary was to light the fuse to loose a cata-
clysm that no earthly power can control. The
‘vulgar’ are in power now, and they are
scourging the aristocrats with scorpions.”
The News thinks that “the lamentable
phase of the situation is the fact that the
responsible people of the State even yet- do
not appear to have waked to the true mean-
ing of the situation.”
Of course not; why should they? They
are getting their part of the blood money
that disfranchised the Negro and Bowed
hatred between two working classes. They
have an ideal working class working for
next to nothing in factory and field—why
should they disturb this idyllic situation just
because of Biease?
But'the champions of Bourbonism, like the
Outlook and that hoary old sinner, the
Charleston (S. C.) News arid Courier, ap-
proach the subject- with due solemnity and
sermonizing. The Outlook learns that “the
passage by * the house of representatives
of South Carolina of the Fortner bill,
prohibiting white men and women from
teaching in colored schools, may bring about
the collapse of Bleaseism and all that it
portends.”
And then its Southern editor proceeds to
write of the superior merits, as compared
with Blease, of a “son of the famous Con-
federate chaplain,” of “women with the
purest blood of the South in their veins,,r of
“famous living Southern artists,” and so
forth, using the usual Southern rhetoric.
The News and Courier approaches “the
Negro question again”—why “again,” pray?
This bill and another to prevent Negroes
and whites working in cotton mills together
supplies the motive here:
“What a confession! Have we reached the
point in South Carolina where we must legis-
late Negroes out of their jobs or out of
getting them in order to take care of white
men who could not otherwise take care of
themselves ?”
Having thus disposed of this horrible legis-
lation, the News waltzes about and says that
if real pressing subjects of legislation were
needed why not listen to “Land Segregation”
Poe of North Carolina:
“There is, for example, no apparent
interest in the tremendously important facts
which Mr. Clarence Poe is constantly dinning
into the ears of all he can reach, namely,
that during the last census period the Negro
farm acreage in every part of the South
showed an increase and the white farm
acreage a decrease; that the Negro ‘already
owns five acres in every fourteen he culti-
vates and has to acquire but one-seventh more
of his farm acreage in order to own one-
half the land he tills;’ and, finally, that from
1900 to 1910 ‘the Negro farm acreage gained
on the white farm acreage a million and a
half acres a year, and the increase in num-
ber of white tenants during the decade was
nearly twice the increase in number of
Negro tenants—118,000 Negroes to nearly
200,000	whites.’
“Mr. Poe argues from’ these facts, and
others of the same nature which we have
not the space to present, that'certain legis-
lative action which he proposes is necessary
if we are to save the agricultural lands of
fhe South for the whites. We have' not
regarded his plan as practicable, but never-
theless we have great respect for his judg-
280
THE CRISIS
ment as well as for his sincerity, and we
cordially agree that the situation to which
he calls attention merits the most careful
investigation and study.”
But alas! South Carolina’s legislature has
not been moved by this bit of philanthropy
and the News is fearful:
“For years the people of the South pleaded
that if they were only let alone they could
handle the race question without difficulty.
They are being let alone. They have never
been so free from disturbing outside in-
fluences as at the present time. Is the South
Carolina legislature determined to arouse
once more the fanaticism against which we
all protested so bitterly when we were suffer-
ing only a few years ago from its
onslaughts f”
Meantime a Southern correspondent in the
Boston Transcript pictures the real
situation:
“The mill population is the answer to the
economic pressure of the Negro in the
agricultural regions. He has driven the poor
whites out. They cannot compete. In all
the Charleston district there probably can-
not be found one white man who is doing his
own farm work. He is an employer of labor
or he is not in agriculture. It is in the up-
country, however, where the mills are, that
the ‘red necks’ or ‘hill billies’ have flocked
to the towns. They are working for a wage.
They hate the Negro for economic reasons.”
Thus the effort to boost the white race by
special legal privilege goes on, despite the
hysterical denial of the Columbia (S. C.)
Record:
“We deny that the white man needs any
law to prevent the Negro from measuring up
to a plane . of equality with him. If that
proposition is once admitted find entered on
our statute books it will stand as an ineffac-
able libel on our South Carolina manhood.
“In addition, the measure proposed to
prevent race equality, if enacted into law,
will open the doors for the very evils which
we most fear, and have reason to fear. If
white teachers are removed from our public
schools and the youthful Negro mind is
turned over to the mercy of vicious Northern
Negro teachers to implant therein the seeds
of race hatred, we will soon be face to face
with incendiary conditions that may burst
forth at any moment of the night or day
with terrible consequences.”
IS THE SOUTH AWAKENING?
' I 1 HE CRISIS is not among those who
A greet every manifestation of ordinary
decency on the part of a Southerner as a
foreshadowing of the millennium. On the
other hand, we are glad and eager to note
every sign of the weakening of Southern
provincialism and narrowness.
One of the most interesting of such signs
is an article in the Outlook by ‘a Southern
woman’ who is naturally anonymous. She
arraigns the lack of community conscience
in the South on the Negro problem:
. “Our criminals, like the criminals of every
country, come chiefly from the economic
class which lives on, or over, the poverty
line—our ‘submerged tenth.’ The large
majority of those in this economic class in
the South are Negroes—a fact which has
resulted in our confusing the poverty line
with the color line, and charging Negroes
racially with sins and tendencies which be-
long the world over to any race living in
their economic condition. But it is just the
Negroes who belong in this economic • class,
those Negroes who form our submerged tenth
and who furnish most of our criminal sup-
ply, whom we white people do not know, and
who consequently have no white folks to send
to, to see that they are protected in the courts.
Oh, there is the Negro problem, and the solu-
tion of it I The poorest, the ones least able
to resist temptation, the most ignorant, the
folk unhelped, untaught, who are born in
squalor, who live in ignorance and in want
of all things necessary -for useful, innocent,
happy lives—they do not know us, nor we
them. • • •
“Nor does the administration of criminal
law in our courts always tend to lessen this
distrust of white people. At each session
of the Southern sociological congresses
Southern men high in office among us—
judges, professors in our great universities,
Young Men’s Christian Association leaders
and others—stated that despite individual
exceptions the trend of our court is to mete
out heavier punishment to black offenders
than to white. It is not, they say, that
Negroes are illegally sentenced, but that for
similar offenses the Negro gets one of the
heavier sentences permissible under the law,
and the white man gets one of the lighter.
More than one Southern governor has de-
fended hia wholesale use of the pardoning
OPINION
281
power on the express ground ‘that the pro-
portion of convictions is greater, and the
terms of sentences longer, for Negroes than
for whites/ • • •
“Why should a colored woman who loves
cleanliness as much as I do, and who is quite
as willing to pay for it, be forced to travel
in that disgusting filth? I know that if I
were forced to do it my husband and my
children and all my friends would feel out-
raged about it, and would never have any use
for the people who made me do it. Why
should these people feel differently? • * •
“There is no sense in mincing matters. We
are no longer children. It is the first step
that costs, always; but the first step is very
plain. It is to put away childish things—
unreasoning prejudice and unreasoning pride
—and to look truth squarely in the face, as
men and women who love it at all costs.
There is no truth in a detached view of the
Negro or of any human being. Everybody
on earth is human first and racial after-
ward. We must see in the Negro, first of
all, deeper than all, higher than all, a man
made in the image of God as truly as we
ourselves. If in the race that image be less
developed than in our own, in some individu-
als of the race it is certainly more highly
developed than in some individuals of ours.
And whatever grows is growable.
“My only fear for white supremacy is
that we should prove unworthy of it. If
we fail there we shall pass. Supremacy is
for service. It is suicide to thrust other races
back from the good which we hold in trust
for humanity. For. him who would be
greatest the price is still that he shall be
servant of all.”
The Macon Telegraph. is still wrestling
manfully with its own conscience:
“In nearly all discussions of an ever timely
subject,” complains the editor, “we observe
a failure to discriminate between the in-
justice or crime that results from race preju-
dice combined with wickedness and that
instinctive race exclusiveness which would
make a color line inevitable even if we all
daily practised the Christian virtues. The
one should be uncompromisingly condemned
both by law and the universal sentiment of a
civilized public. The other we may deplore
but cannot condemn as conscious wrong.
“We might as well attempt to reconstruct
the laws governing the universe, as well
attempt to cause water to run up hill, as to
attempt to eradicate that instinctive and
unconscious feeling that holds the grand
divisions of the human race apart and pro-
duces the color line; for it is the barrier
erected by nature itself in order to prevent
the distinct races of men from being merged
into one inferior and undesirable amalga-
mation. The analogue of the color line is
seen throughout nature, yet it does not occur
to us to disapprove. Robins and wrens, for
example, nest and flock apart, but not even
the most enthusiastic and determined
‘reformer’ among us is offended.”
Yes, but, O Simplest of Brothers, there is
no line between human beings like that
between robins and wrens, and the knottiest
of race problems comes not from separation,
but from the mingling which whites have
insisted on and still insist on. Who, for
instance, began the mingling of white and
black? And when did Dumas, Pushkin,
Coleridge-Taylor and Booker Washing-
ton become “inferior and undesirable
amalgamations” ?
A Tennessee paper quoted in La Follette?s
says:
“The Negro is at present the heavy labor
power in the South. The Negroes nurse
children, cook, work on the streets, drive
automobiles, work in homes, work in the
factories and work everywhere else. As a
rule* the Negro works with his hands and
the white man bosses.
“If we are to continue to use Negro labor,
we must see to it that it is effective, and it
will be effective only to the point that the
Negro remains healthy and strong.
“If we would protect our children, we have
got to see to it that Negro men and women
do not have tuberculosis and do not fall
victims to other diseases.
“From a purely commercial and sanitary
point of view, then, the Negroes should have
opportunity to live under conditions con-
ducive to health, and there is nothing so
health giving as plenty of fresh air.
“We denounce Negroes for herding in
dives, and yet the presiding genius of the
craps table is usually some low-down but
thrifty white man.
“We denounce Negroes for frequenting
dives, and yet they are about the only places
where they can have amusement of any sort.
And the Negro is an amusement-loving
person.
282
THE CRISIS
“The Negro, then, ought to have a separate
park and he should have reasonably con-
venient means of access to that park.
“There is a higher cause than that of
commercial prosperity for a Negro recreation
park. It is a part of humanity to give to
the Negroes opportunity for innocent
amusement.
“The Negro is the great wealth producer
in this territory, and an appreciation of this
fact in the shape of improved living con-
ditions for him would be responded to by
more generous'effort on his part to observe
the law and to merit the trust that is put in
him.”
This same line of argument is being pressed
in Georgia:
“A great dinner of 2,000 representative
citizens of Georgia was recently given in
Atlanta,” says the Seattle Intelligencer, “one
feature of which was that the tables were
spread exclusively with products of that
State. The menu contained many epigrams
upon conditions in Georgia. One of the
notable ones was to the effect that the
presence in that Siate of the greatest body
of Negroes and the least progressive was ‘at
once the white man’s burden and the white
man’s opportunity. If the Negroes are
allowed to remain in this condition they will
continue to be a brake on the progress of
the State. If they are taught and led into
such a state of efficiency as this race formerly
developed, with the added value of freedom
and practical education, they will reward all
of the care and money expended on them.’
“The Houston Post comments approvingly
upon these utterances and adds a number of
its own along similar lines, concluding thus:
“ ‘The Southern white people are simply
neglecting their own welfare and impeding
their own progress so long as they do not, in
every possible way, encourage the Negroes
to become intelligent, efficient, industrious
and thrifty people. They are going to be
here always and we cannot afford to permit
them to drift. Their labor is needed and
always will be needed, and when they learn
how to do things well they will be a tre-
mendous factor in the South’s progress and
civilization/ ”
All this argument is encouraging, but not
altogether satisfactory. That bit, for
instance, on the “state of efficiency” which
“this race formerly developed,” is delicious.
“This race” was formerly 90 per cent,
illiterate and raised crops worth about
$100,000,000; to-day they have 36.5 per cent,
of illiteracy and the crops of Georgia (1909)
were worth $226,000,000. But they are not
so “efficient” as formerly because now the
Negro gets wages, albeit low ones. Thus the
whole argument above is the argument of
employers and exploiters looking after their
money-making machines. It is better than
no argument, but it is not much better.
The Tampa (Fla.) Tribune sounds a
clearer note on an evil characteristic of nearly
every Southern city:
“The Negro population of Tampa suffers
a serious handicap in its desire to establish
a higher standard of morality and citizen-
ship for itself. The section of the city which
embraces its churches and its homes is also
the section devoted by the illicit resorts for
the practice of their demoralizing ‘trade.’ The
Negro of good purposes and better senti-
ment cannot hope to rear his children prop-
erly amid such surroundings.
“We may cease to wonder that the Negro
furnishes the majority of our criminals and
occupies the major attention of our officers
and courts, when we realize that he is forced
to establish his family altar, to bring up his
children and even to worship his Maker in
the shadow of the ‘sporting house,’ where
dissolute whites parade their shame with the
tolerance if not the outright protection of the
civil* authorities.”
The Miami (Fla.) Herald seconds this
motion:
“It is doubtful whether any community in
the State, or of the South, for that matter,
has a more orderly, industrious and respect-
able Negro population than has this city.
The members of that race live by themselves,
have their own separate communities, their
own businesses and their own special activi-
ties. They are struggling to elevate their
race in all the civic virtues.
“And yet, it is painful to chronicle, there
is frequent complaint on the part of the
better class of colored people that they are
often most unjustly used by unscrupulous
white men. Defenseless Negroes are assaulted
by white men and practically have no de-
fense or protection. They are imposed upon
in business transactions and it has been cir-
cumstantially related that they are often sub-
jected to official tyranny by overbearing and
brutal officers.”
OPINION
283
On the other hand, read these two bits of
Southern humor—for joy, like grief, reveals
the real man. The Greensboro (N. C.)
Everything says:
“The race question bobbed up a little in
Greensboro this week. A Negro wanted to
move in a house he had bought, located
among the whites, and the whites simply said
it wouldn't do. The matter will be amicably
settled. It must be. This is a white man’s
town, and the African knows it. For the
most part he is willing to admit it. There
may be no written law saying where a Negro
shall live and where a white man shall live,
but in a white man’s town there need be no
law, because the Negroes cannot mix with
the whites. That is the long and short of
it. The whites are always willing to treat
the colored brother right—but if he tries to
butt in in any way he is going to be made
butt out either legally or illegally.”
This is from the Taylor (Tex.) Journal:
“Carl Schulenberg, a fartner living near
Taylor, has started a new method of collect-
ing. He had advanced goods to a Negro man
to be paid for in picking cotton. The Negro
left him before paying up. Monday morn-
ing he found him on Main Street at the
crossing of Broad. The Negro was very
independent and seemed to feel that Mr.
Schulenberg was a soft egg because he gave
him credit. This made the axe handle in Mr.
Schulenberg’s hand very mad and it began
to lambast the Negro in the latest improved
style. The Negro ran up the street and the
axe handle,, accompanied by Mr. Schulenberg,
ran after him and interested the Negro
greatly.
“Don’t know what the officers did about
it, but guess they put the Negro to work on
the rock pile and rewarded the axe handle.”
m
THE SMITH-LEVER BILL AND
JUDGE TERRELL.
THERE is a strong suspicion that the
South is not so anxious to debate the
Negro question as it used to be. Certainly
the debate on the Smith-Lever bill was any-
thing but encouraging to the Bourbons. One
paper (we do not know its name) says:
“Whenever the Bleases and the Varda-
mans of the South are overhauled for their
intemperance of speech on the Negro ques-
tion, they invariably point to the colored race
as needing instruction in agriculture and
other forms of manual labor, rather than
book learning. ‘Teach the Negro to use his
hands in honest labor and not his head in
scheming how to avoid labor,’ is believed to
be an extract from an address by Senator
Vardaman. And yet, when the opportunity
arises to teach the Negro on the lines laid
down by the Senator, and on the lines of
greatest economic benefit to the race and to
the South, Mr. Vardaman is the first to
object!
“Such an exhibition of racial antagonism
as the Mississippi Senator gave in the Senate
last week is not calculated to strengthen faith
in the sincerity of his previous utterances.
It displayed his mental limitations in deal-
ing with a subject which the South, and
especially his own State, must face with an
open mind and without prejudice.”
The Boston Transcript says:
“Some of the speeches delivered by. yardar
man and his sympathizers read like extracts
from the harangues of the secession Senators
of I860, not the men who fought for the
Southern Confederacy, but those who talked
other men into fighting for it. The spark
which has kindled the blaze of antiquated
Negrophobia is the amendment offered by
Senator Jones, of Washington, to the effect
that the color line shall not be drawn in the
application of Federal aid. In reply to this
very reasonable stipulation Vardaman has
declared that to give Negroes the benefit of
the funds for agricultural colleges is like an
offer to guide a man through a powder maga-
zine with a lighted torch. Senator Martin, of
Virginia, ‘argued’ that the Negroes were
better off under slavery than they have been
since emancipation.
“The Northern reader has to rub his eyes
as he reads such harangues delivered in this
year of grace 1914, to be sure that he is not
dreaming.”
Even the Waco (Tex.) News:
“We agree thoroughly with Senators Jones,
Clapp and Gallinger that the Negro indus-
trial and agricultural schools of the South
should share some of the Federal appropria-
tion for farm demonstration work in this
section of the country. They are citizens
the same as the whites. Many of them own
property. Those who own property pay their
taxes. The large majority of the Negro
citizens are law abiding, and the gentleman
from Mississippi was playing politics—and
284
THE CRISIS
very small politics at that—and catering to
a reprehensible race prejudice when he op-
posed such a measure.”
On the Terrell appointment the Evening
Post says sarcastically:
“Can a black judge know the law? Are
proud white men who violate the city ordi-
nances or who cheat and steal to be compelled
to hear a Negro judge define their misde-
meanors and pass sentence upon them? Not
if Vardaman and Hoke Smith can prevent
it. As for President Wilson, he could not
have done other than name Judge Terrell
again without stultifying himself.”
The Ogdensburg Journal adds:
“Senator Vardaman is preparing to fight
confirmation. The performance may be. in-
teresting if not edifying, for Mr. Vardaman
has long, glossy hair and might be mistaken
by some for a medicine man. When he dons
his war paint he will present just such a
picture as one would expect from a white
man who would so far forget himself as to
use his position in the greatest forum of
the world in an effort to arouse racial
hatred.”
m
A FOLLOWER OF JESUS CHRIST.
T T is bo seldom that the Christian church
to-day speaks a clear true word on the
Negro problem that it is all the more wel-
come when it comes. The Congregationalist
says:
“We are confronted to-day by a race prob-
lem which is rapidly becoming more acute
and menacing. It demands the immediate
action of those who love their country and
would prevent disaster. • • •
“If the recommendations of Governor
Blease are followed South Carolina will lead
in the movement, which other Southern
States promise to support, for the repeal of
the Fifteenth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States. This would complete
the disfranchisement of Negro-American
citizens. North Carolina is seriously con-
sidering the proposal of Clarence Poe, of
the Progressive Farmer, to exclude colored
farmers from land ownership in any district
where a majority vote could be polled against
them.
“The lynching record, which declined from
1908 through 1912, rose in 1913 above every
year but one since 1904. Last year's terrible
record was seventy-nine. Only twenty-four
were accused of the ‘usual crime' of assault
or attempted assault on women.
“These recent events, to which many others
could be added, reveal a state of affairs so
brutally unjust, so undemocratic, so un-
Christian and false to our national ideals
that no class of our citizens can long be
safe if such conditions are tolerated in this
country.
“The Bleases and Vardamans may retard
the Negro race, they may increase the num-
ber of indolent and vicious blacks by
denying them knowledge and a fair chance;
but the Negro race in America is advancing
rapidly in spite of all opposition; increasing
thousands of them are virtuous, wise and
useful Americans. As far as those who seek
to submerge the Negro succeed in their
efforts, so far they impoverish and corrupt
our country and injure us all. When Ameri-
cans insult the Japanese who come to the
United States, we stimulate personal enmity
and offend a great friendly nation, and the
effects of that form of race prejudice hurt
us more than Japan. The same rules apply
to all our manifestations of race prejudice.
“The gospel that we proclaim and which
wp send and carry to distant lands is the
gospel of universal brotherhood; but when
people of the races to whom we have sent
that gospel move into our neighborhood, we
forget that they are brothers and let them
alone so severely or treat them as so far
inferior to ourselves that the missionaries
and the members of the churches which sent
them to convert the heathen seem to have an
entirely different kincj of religion.
“We may be brothers to the little brown
man in Japan, but the relationship is dis-
solved when he comes to live in California.
We may be brothers to the black man in the
Congo, but when we meet a black man in
South Carolina, or perchance in Chicago'or
Boston, we are sometimes so far from pro-
claiming, our kinship that we fail to recog-
nize his rights as a man.
“God, give us vision to-day 1 Our greatest
prophets in the twentieth century carry for-
ward as a torch to light our pathway the
ideals of Washington and Lincoln. They
proclaim the brotherhood of man. The su-
preme test of our lives comes in being
brothers.”
DOES ORGANIZATION. PAY?
HE colored Americans
have not yet realized the
strength or efficiency of
organization. They con-
tinually complain of
inability to co-operate,
of disintegrating tendencies, of inef-
fective beginnings of union.
Yet even in the midst of complaints
union has been accomplished, organiza-
tion has become effective. We have
passed those pitiable years of internal
turmoil when half the race seemed to
have their faces turned back toward
slavery. We have entered an epoch when
so great an enemy of the Negro race as
Clarence Poe, of North Carolina, can
write:	1 ‘Everybody knows that the
Negroes stand together!”
Having thus taken the first steps
toward effective organization, let us go
forward. Let us not halt and bicker
and criticise, like Harry C. Smith in the
Cleveland Gazette, because we have not
in a few years undone the structure
reared by prejudice in a half century.
We have not, to be sure, even stirred
the foundations of disfranchisement and •
“Jim Crow” legislation. But we are
welding the hammers and we mean
business.
But, reader, do you mean business?
Do you realize what 10,000,000 united
people can do? Have you joined the
National Association for the Advance-
ment of Colored People and sent your
dollar to do its duty?
Or are you drifting, with so many
white Americans, under the excuse that
“Nothing can be done.” “It’s no use.”
“Let prejudice alone.” Nonsense!
Weak and slow though our cause still
may be, yet remember:
Not to the swift nor to the strong
The battles of the right belong,
For he who strikes for freedom wears
The armor of the captive’s prayers.
And Nature proffers to his cause
The strength of her eternal laws.
While she whose arm essays to bind
And herd with common brutes, his kind,
Strives evermore at fearful odds
With Nature and the jealous gods,
And dares the dread recoil which late
Or soon, their right shall vindicate.
There are 36,000 copies of this issue
of The Crisis being read this month.
There are at least 100,000 readers. If
every reader becomes a member of the
National Association for the Advance-
ment of Colored People, the battle for
Negro rights is won!
m
THE CIVILIZATION OF MISSISSIPPI.
N the Western part of the
State of Mississippi, on
the low banks of the
Father of Waters, and
about fifty miles above
Vicksburg, is the quiet
and beautiful county of Washington.
Fifty thousand people live there, of
whom 41,500 are colored and the rest are
whites of good native American parent-
age. In the county seat—Greenville—
live 10,000 people, largely white, and
ten miles west of Greenville is the little
village of Leland, 'with a thousand souls
or,less.
286
THE CRISIS
It is a typical Southern country vil-
lage. Doubtless the Methodist Church,
South, has one of the Lord’s Shepherds
there and, of course, there is a Baptist
Church for whites, not to mention one
or two colored churches.
After this preliminary information
we append this society note from Leland
sent by the Associated Press:
Leland, Miss., February 24—Sam Petty,
a Negro, accused of having killed a deputy
sheriff, Charles W. Kirkland, was shot by a
mob of 300 men to-night and his body
burned.
Petty, wanted on a trivial charge, killed
Kirkland with a shotgun when the officer
entered a cabin late to-day in which the
Negro had taken refuge. Petty was cap-
tured by a posse, bound and placed in an
oil-soaked dry-goods box and the match ap-
plied. A moment later the man, his clothing
aflame, broke from his fastenings and started
to run, but before he could gain headway
was shot dead.
The body was put back in the box, fresh
inflammables were piled about it, and within
half an hour it was burned to ashes.
Nothing has been done in this matter.
The President is busy in Mexico and
Panama and the Reverend G. Campbell
Morgan is preaching in Atlanta on the
evils of the tango. President Eliot is
toying with woman’s suffrage and James
K.	Vardaman is flooding Congress with
light and hope. In fact, “God’s in His
Heaven, all’s right with the world.”
O
BRAZIL.
S a magnificent essay in
valiant timidity we
recommend Mr.
Theodore Roosevelt’s
“Brazil and the Negro”
in the Outlook. The
story which he has to tell is simple:
There are in Brazil 8,300,000 Negroes
and mulattoes; 3,700,000 Indian and
mixed Indian-whites and 8,000,000 per-
sons of European descent. All these
elements are fusing into one light
mulatto race.
These are the simple facts. Mr.
Roosevelt has hitherto rather ostenta-
tiously avoided them. He visited Rio
Janeiro, with a Negroid population in
the hundred thousands, and almost over-
looked them; he visited Bahia, if we mis-
take not, which has more Negroes than
any city in the world, and quite forgot
them.
At last, however, Mr. Roosevelt coyly
approaches his subject. The editors warn
away the frivolous with these protesting
italics: “It may be noted that in this
article Mr. Roosevelt is not attempting
to justify or condemn the Brazilian
attitude toward the Negro as con-
trasted with that of the United States,
but simply to set forth clearly what the
Brazilian attitude is in fact.”
Mr. Roosevelt then, in characteristic
fashion, states three facts and two
falsehoods.
The facts are:
1.	Brazil is absorbing the Negro
race.
2.	There is no color bar to advance
ment.
3.	There is no social bar to advance-
ment, but the mass of full-blooded
Negroes are still in the lower social
class.
Then come the falsehoods:
1.	The best men in the United States
believe “in treating each man of what-
ever color absolutely on his worth as a
man, allowing him full opportunity to
achieve the success warranted by his
ability and integrity, and giving to him
the full measure of respect to which that
success entitles him.” This is not so
and Mr. Roosevelt knows it is not. so.
The best men in' the United States be-
lieve that their “civilization” can only
he maintained by compelling all per-
sons of Negro descent to occupy an
inferior place. The exceptions to this
belief are negligible.
2.	That the Brazilians regard the
Negro element in their blood as “a
slight weakening.” What do Brazilians
say as to this “slight weakening”? We
EDITORIAL
287
quote from Dr. Jean Baptiste de
Lacerda, director of the National
Museum of Rio Janeiro:
“The metis of Brazil have given birth
down to our own time to poets of no mean
inspiration, painters, sculptors, distin-
guished musicians, magistrates, lawyers,
eloquent orators, remarkable writers,
medical men and engineers, who have
been unrivaled in the technical skill and
professional ability. * * *
“The co-operation of the metis in the
advance of Brazil is notorious and far
from inconsiderable. They played the
chief part during many years in Brazil
in the campaign for the abolition of
slavery. I could quote celebrated names
of more than one of these metis *Who put
themselves at the head of the literary
movement. They fought with firmness
and intrepidity in the press and on the
platform. They faced with courage the
greatest perils to which they were ex-
posed in their struggle against the
powerful slave owners, who had the pro-
tection of a conservative government.
They gave evidence of sentiments of
patriotism, self-denial and appreciation
during the long campaign in Paraguay,
fighting heroically at the boarding of
the ships in the canal battle of Ria-
chuelo and in the attacks of the
Brazilian army, on numerous occasions
in the course of this long South Ameri-
can war. It was owing to their support
that the republic was erected on the
ruins of the empire.”
And what of all this? Is it not a
plea for intermarriage of whites and
blacks in the United States? It is not.
It is a plea for truth. It is a denial
that lying will settle any human prob-
lem. Most white people in the United
States prefer to marry white people.
That is perfectly proper and defensible.
Most colored people prefer to marry
colored people. This is perfectly logical
and commendable. These facts need no
defense and need no proof. They are
the easily understandable desire of both
races.
But a vast number of people are not
satisfied with such bare facts. They
want to bolster them up with scientific
lies and social insult. They want to
scare and beat people into doing pre-
cisely what people would do without
bogies and force, and the result is that
they not only accomplish what they
wish, but they also accomplish poverty,
crime, prostitution, ignorance, lynching,
mob violence and the ruin of democratic
government for the unfortunate victims
of their lies. All this is clear, but to
expect Theodore Roosevelt to say it
plainly without twistings and equivoca-
tion is to expect the millennium.
m
A HELPER.
HE National Association
for the Advancement of
Colored People regrets
to lose the services of
Dr. M. C. B. Mason. We
have need, and pressing
need, of an organizer in the field, but
funds are not yet available and it is
manifestly unfair to ask a man o.f Dr.
Mason’s standing to serve for a pittance
or upon a contingent salary. We hope
still to retain Dr. Mason’s interest and
we wish him all success in his new work.
m
VEILED INSULTS.
E have spoken before of
the custom in the United
States of refusing to
capitalize the word
“Negro.”
Before 1850 the use
of the capital letter was practically
universal, but with the determined on-
slaught upon the Negro-American in the
decade previous to the war, the present
insulting custom was fixed. Note for a
moment the quite unconscious result:
The Kansas City Journal publishes an
admirable little lay sermon on a certain
much heralded experiment in racial
culture. We abstract three paragraphs:
“The imagination readily responds to
the effort to bring up representatives of
288
THE CRISIS
half a dozen or more races—American,
Chinese, Indian, negro, Japanese, Jew,
Russian, etc.—in an environment which
shall be uniform, which shall be directed
to the task of permitting human nature,
rather than any of its racial subdivi-
sions, to take its course, subject to the
modifications of a universal environ-
ment. •	•	•
‘‘Will the little American, the little
Jew, the little Italian, the little
Chinese, the little negro and all the
other little ones grow up to be men and
women who conform to a uniform
standard of intellectual and spiritual
measurement, forgetting in the new
knowledge of proper training all the
heritage of their racial origin and all
the evils of an undesirable environ-
ment? • • •
In still other words, is not one good
citizen just as good as any other good
citizen, regardless of whether he is an
American, a Jew, an Italian, a negro, a
Chinese, a Japanese or what not?”
In substance nothing could be better
than these statements; but can anyone
read them and for a moment think of
the Negro race as equal to other races?
Yet some of the best friends of colored
people persist in this species of insult.
B
THE IMITATION MANIA.
SMITATION is the sin-
cerest flattery.” It is
also a confession of
A race even fifty
years removed from
slavery surrounded as ours is by “the
means of grace,” however inconvenient
BS gg S3
in some instances may be the attain-
ment or utilization of these means, is
a child race no more, and nothing short
of a deliberate intention to subscribe to
Til Lm an-Var daman ism and to help in
the propagation of the doctrine of
ineradicable race inferiority should per-
mit us for a moment to designate
ourselves or each other as “black Web-
sters,” “black Sousas,” “black Emer-
sons,” black this and black that.
I can think of no reason, inherent,
acquired or otherwise conditional, why
in our respective lines of endeavor we
should not be willing to be measured
fairly by universal standards, with the
hope of giving a good account of our-
selves, and, in any event, be content
with the result.
Who ever heard of a “white Fred.
Douglass,” a “white Coleridge-Taylor”
or even a “white Jack Johnson”? Let’s
stand a little more nearly erect on our
own feet and be sensible.
B.	F. Bowles.
b
MUSIC.
NE of the methods of
exploiting inexperienced
persons is to advertise
for song poems to be set
to music. The ambitious
poet is then mulcted of
$25 or $50 and the “song” published.
One such fearsome mess comes to us
from Oklahoma, published by music
publishers in Washington, D. C. The
music is nothing and the poetry is less.
We warn our readers against such
schemes. They involve a waste of
precious time and money.
m m
8PE3NQ.
By William Moore
J COME with a song and flowers,
And green growing grass and rill
Of brooks, and spell of showers,
And life to your heart’s sweet fill,
For I am spring 1
Ulljr Nrw Abolitirm anh Jts Work

THE ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE
ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED
PEOPLE.
* I ?.HE sixth annual conference of the
A National Association will be held in
Baltimore May 3, 4 and 5, with a post-
conference meeting in Washington May 6,
and a meeting with the National Conference
of Charities and Correction in Memphis,
Tenn., during the week of May 8.
The opening session of the Baltimore con-
ference will be Sunday afternoon, May 3,
and there will be afternoon and evening ses-
sions Monday and Tuesday. Ail the sessions
will be public, with the exception of the
executive sessions Monday and Tuesday
mornings, which will be open only to
members.
Various aspects of the following subjects
will be considered at the conference: Edu-
cation, segregation, “Jim Crow” cars and the
political rights of the Negro. Among the
speakers are Mr. Charles J. Bonaparte, ex-
Attorney-General of the United States, a
grandson of a brother of Napoleon Bona-
parte; Dr. Katherine Bement Davis, com-
missioner of correction of New York City;
Senator Wesley L. Jones, of Washington,
who led the fight for the Jones amendment
to the Smith-Lever bill; Mrs. La Follette,
wife of Senator La Follette; Mr. Oswald
Garrison Villard; Mrs. Coralie F. Cook;
Bishop John Hurst; the Rev. R. W. Bag-
nail; Mr. Archibald H. Grimke and others.
The local committee of arrangements in
Baltimore consists of Dr. Harvey Johnson,
chairman; Dr. F. N. Cardoza, vice-chairman;
Dr. G. R. Waller; Mr. W. T. McGuinn; Dr.
H. S. McCard; Mr. C. L. Davis; Mr. John
Murphy, Sr., and Miss Lucy D. Slowe,
secretary. Additional members of the
various committees are Prof. Mason A.
Hawkins, Messrs. James Hughes and Harry
0.	Wilson and Mrs. Jennie Ross. They have
already begun their work. Clippings just
received at national headquarters announce
a concert to be given under the auspices of
the committee at Albaugh’s Theatre, March
19, to raise the funds necessary to meet the
expenses of the conference. The branch has
engaged the Williams colored singers for the
occasion.
Baltimore is the furthest South that the
National Association has yet called a con-
ference. We urge every reader of The
Crisis and every member of the association
to help us by advertising the conference and
by being present, if possible, in person to
encourage us in our work.
a
NOTES FROM BRANCHES.
St. Paul.
THE officers of the new branch recently
formed at St. Paul are: Col. J. H.
Davidson, president; Mrs. Lillian A.
Turner, secretary; Mr. Louis Nash, treasurer;
executive committee: Mr. Hugh F. Halbert,
Dr. Parley P. Womer, Rabbi Rypins, Mrs.
T. H. Lyles, Mr. Jose H. Sherwood, Mr.
W. T. Francis, Dr. Val Do Turner, Mr. O.
C.	Hall, Mr. J. H. Loomis, Judge Grier M.
Orr, Mrs. Bryant, Mr. George W. James,
Mr. J. Q. Adams.
The branch has a membership of over
100 and includes many of the leading busi-
ness men and educators of the city, both
white and colored. The first meeting that
the new branch held does great credit to its
enterprise and to the talent of its members.
The meeting was held in the Plymouth Con-
gregational Church. On the platform were
Dr. George Vincent, president of the State
University; Dr. T. Morey, president of
MacAlester College; Dr. Samuel Kerfoot,
president of Hamline University, and the
Rev. P. P. Womer, pastor of the Plymouth
Congregational Church. The address of the
evening was made by Dr. Shailer Matthews,
dean of the divinity department of the
Chicago University. His subject was “Abra-
ham Lincoln and Fifty Years After.” Dr.
Matthews was introduced by Governor A. 0.
Eberhart. Dr. Matthews said in part:
“There is a disposition to treat the Negro
as a half personality, a half man; he must
290
THE CRISIS
be considered as a personality, for he is
unquestionably one of the gTeat factors in
this country to-day. Race antagonism lias
developed within the last fifty years. There
is antagonism between various races, but
the feeling against the Negro has increased
to an unusual extent. The difficult phase of
the present situation, which is approaching
a crisis, is that the best element of the Negro
race is not in the best position to help the
worse element. They lack education, finan-
cial status and influence, and their mental
state is not developed highly enough. Give
them the education, give them the oppor-
tunity to make good, give the Negro the
‘square deal’ to which he is entitled.”
District of Columbia.
The District of Columbia branch keeps
up its high standard of remarkable meetings.
On the anniversary of the birthday of
Frederick Douglass, February 18, a mass
meeting was held in the Nineteenth Street
Baptist Church. The chief speakers were
Dr. Joel E. Spingarn, Dr. Du Bois, Senator
Clapp, the Reverend Mr. Hudson and Mr.
Archibald H. Grimke, who presided.
The chairman read a paper which Senator
Clapp called one of the best he had ever
heard. Dr. Spingarn told of his Western
trip, and Dr. Du Bois related the history of
the 'Irish struggle for liberty. Senator
Clapp and the Reverend Mr. Hudson aroused
the audience to prolonged applause by elo-
quent appeals. There were 800 persons
present.
Philadelphia.
The Philadelphia branch, which has had a
most creditable increase in its members, an-
nounces a meeting to be held in the Friends’
Meeting House. Dr. Edgar F. Smith, provost
of the University of Pennsylvania, is to he
the chief speaker. Mr. Henry Wilbur,
secretary of the Friends’ general conference,
will make the welcoming address, and there
will be other noted people on the program.
Providence.
The recently elected officers of the Provi-
dence branch are: Dr. J. J. Robinson, presi-
dent; Mr. J. C. Minkins, first vice-president
and chairman of the executive board;
Rev. C. C. Alleyne, second vice-president;
Mr. Frederic Carter, third vice-president;
Miss Roberta J. Dunbar, secretary; Rev.
Zechariah Harrison, treasurer; executive
board: Mr. James Dixon, Mr. William A.
Heathman, Dr. A. L. Jackson, Mr. William
P.	H. Freeman, Mr. Robert L. Smith.
Seattle.
The officers of the branch recently formed
in Seattle are as follows: Mrs. Letitia A.
Graves, president; Mr. G. W. Jones, vice-
president; Mrs. Zoe Graves Young, recordiug
secretary; Mrs. W. L. Presto, corresponding
secretary; Mr. G. O. Allen, treasurer; execu-
tive board: Mr. G. W. Thompson, Mr. Lee
A.	Hankins, Mr. B. F..Tutt, Mrs. S. D. Stone,
Mr. A. R. Black, Mr. S. H. Stone.
Talladega.
The Talladega branch announces the .fol-
lowing oflicers elected at their last meeting:
Prof. William Pickens, president; Mr. E. E.
Lightner, secretary; Mr. Hampton Taylor,
treasurer; executive committee: Dr. E. H.
Jones, Dr. J. P. Barton, Dr. F. W. Terry,
Rev. W. L. Boyd, Mr. V. A. Brockman, Rev.
A.	T. Clark.
Trenton.
The officers of the Trenton branch are as
follows: Rev. J. A. White, president; Mr.
Nathan Hovington, vice-president; Mr. T.
Edward Kinney, secretary; Mr. J. Williams,
treasurer; Rev. R. M.* Johnson, chaplain>
executive committee: Dr. Solomon Porter
Hood, chairman; Rev. L. O. Jones, Prof.
George W. Clark, Mr. Philip Lbgan, Mr.
D.	J. Graham, Dr. Howard Bundy, Rev.
L.	C. Hurdle, Mr. John Lewis, Mr. William
H. Salters, Mr. John M. Herbert.
m
SEGREGATION.
THAT segregation among civil service is
still with us is indicated by the bills intro-
duced by Congressman Edwards, of Georgia,
and Aswell, of Louisiana, which* propose the
segregation of the races in various govern-
ment departments and throughout the civil
service in the United States. At a hearing
before the House committee on reform in
the civil service, held on March 6, Mr.
Edwards frankly said that if he could have
his way he would eliminate the colored
government employee.
Mr. Archibald H. Grimke, president of the
District o£ Columbia branch, represented the
National Association. Mr. Grimke predicted
that the colored race would be a part of the
governing class of this country within fifty
years. He declared that the South had
handled the Negro problem in the wrong way
and that this eventually would become ap-
parent. Mr. Grimke made a deep
impression.
OUR LEGAL BUREAU
By CHAPIN BRINSMADE
Attorney-in-chartfe

T F the National Association for the
““■ Advancement of Colored People is
to obtain the best possible results from
its legal work we should keep constantly
in mind the ultimate object which we
hope to accomplish by it. This object
we conceive to be the building up of
a body of judicial decisions which shall
comprehensively state the law on the subject
of civil and political rights; which shall
mold that law, so far as possible, along
lines which admit of no distinctions whatever
on grounds of race or color; and which, in
so far as they fail to do this, shall point out
the direction which legislation calculated to
supplement these decisions should take.
Viewing the matter in this light, it is
apparent at once that the work becomes a
national and not a local problem. Of course,
each locality has its peculiar needs. Dis-
crimination manifests itself differently in
different places, so that one locality neces-
sarily devotes particular attention to civil-
rights cases, another to educational matters
and still another to residential segregation.
All, however, should look at these problems
from the same point of view. All should
regard them as different manifestations of
the one evil which we are fighting, namely,
race discrimination. That is the principle
under which all these seemingly different
problems can be harmonized.
If then we are to regard this matter as
a national problem it is apparent that close
co-operation between the various branches
of the National Association for the Advance-
ment of Colored People and between each
branch and the national attorney is essen-
tial. The national attorney must know at
all times what cases are being handled by
the different branches. He is in a position to
view the problem as a whole, to see in what
respects the law. of race discrimination is
lagging behind and in what directions it is
keeping abreast of the times. If having this
viewpoint he has also the benefit of cordial
co-operation with the branches, he can not
only more successfully conduct his own work,
but also can the better advise the branches
with respect to their cases.
In an attempt to put the legal work upon
this desirable basis, all the branches have
been asked to send a statement describing
(1) the organization and personnel of their
legal-redress committees; (2) .the arrange-
ments, financial and otherwise, which they
have made with attorneys, and (3) the legal
work which they have recently done, are
now doing or have in prospect. The pro-
curing of this information, it is hoped, will
inaugurate a system of cordial and helpful
co-operation which should get results.
The following are some of the matters on
which the attorney is now engaged:
Civil Rights.
New York has proved a difficult place to
win civil-rights actions. Of the six or seven
cases recently reported, all but one were
such that, for one reason or another, we did
not feel justified in pressing them. As to
the one good case, we are moving slowly.
Our object is not to bring as many cases
as possible, but to win one or two decisively.
It is hoped that in the next issue of The
Crisis we shall have something of impor-
tance to report in this connection.
Congress.
Smith-Lever Bill—Whatever the final
outcome of our fight for justice in the
distribution of funds for agricultural
extension work, much will have been
accomplished. The name of the asso-
ciation was brought prominently before the
Senate and through it before the people of
the country as a champion of equality and
justice. The attorney, ‘during his stay in
Washington, saw a great number of Senators,
and in personal inteiwiews brought clearly
to their attention the work of the associa-
tion. A large part of his time was also
292
THE CRISIS
spent in seeing newspaper men and getting
them to give space to our side of the ques-
tion. But, best of all, the fact that it was
our association which caused the two days’
debate in the Senate and forced the accept-
ance by the South of the Shafroth amend-
ment was made plain to the Senate. Senator
Gallinger read on the floor of the Senate a
letter of protest from this association, com-
menting on the fact that such people as Mr.
Storey, Miss Addams and Mr. Villard were
members of our board, and Senator Works
read a telegram from the California branch
of the National Association for the Advance-
ment of Colored People. Our part in the
fight was made clear to the people of the
country through newspaper comments which
stated that the Jones amendment was insti-
gated by this association.
The bill is now in conference, the House
having declined to concur in the Senate
amendments. The personnel of the con-
ference committee is as follows: For the
Senate: Smith, of Georgia; Smith, of South
Carolina, and Brady, of Idaho. For the
House: Lever, of South Carolina; Lee, of
Georgia, and Haugen, of Iowa. All the
Democrats are Southern Democrats. More-
over, Brady was one of the two Republicans
who opposed the Jones amendment through-
out. We have therefore only one friend on
the conference committee. In spite of this
fact, we hope for a favorable conference
report on the Shafroth amendment. We be-
lieve that the chairman of the committee and
the man who will probably control it, Hoke
Smith, of Georgia, will prevent the rejec-
tion of the amendment, not from any fond-
ness for it—far from it—but from a dis-
inclination which seems to be shared by a
number of other Southern Senators for a
further debate on the race question in the
Senate.
Should the conference committee reject
the amendment our friends are prepared to
make a fight against the report. Should this
fight fail our protest will be promptly made
to the President, urging him to veto the bill.
Judge Terrell.
Apprised by newspaper reports of Senator
Vardaman’s announced intention to defeat
Judge Terrell's confirmation, we promptly
sent to Senator Clapp an open letter pro-
testing against such action. The letter has
received wide publicity and will serve to
call the attention of the country to the fact
that Southern Senators are openly making
color a reason for declining to confirm an
appointment of the President. Judge
Terrell’s record on the bench has been such
that the South was unable to find any pre-
text for this opposition. It was forced
to come out into the open and oppose him
on account of his color. Senator Clapp has
stated that he will do all in his power to
get . the Senate to act favorably on the
nomination.
Private Anderson.
The association has achieved another
notable success in the legal-aid work. Some
months ago Private Samuel Anderson, of
the mounted detachment of the 25th Infantry,
a soldier who had served one enlistment
blamelessly in the 9th Cavalry and had never
had a serious charge against him in the
25th Infantry, was sentenced by a court
martial in Honolulu to a period of five years’
imprisonment on the charge of having bur-
glariously entered the quarters of a white
woman, wife of a soldier, with intent to
do wrong. The testimony was largely cir-
cumstantial and the character of the chief
witness against him was not what it had
first appeared. Fortunately, Anderson found
a warm champion in Capt. Charles F. Bates,
of the 25th Infantry. Captain Bates laid
the matter before the then chairman of the
association, Mr. Oswald Garrison Villard,
in September last, and Mr. Villard person-
ally interviewed the judge-advocate-general
of the army. Captain Bates brought the
details of the case to New York in December,
when he arrived on leave of absence, most of
which he has devoted in the most self-
sacrificing way to this case. In addition, in
connection with Captain Bates, Mr. Villard
submitted to the judge-advocate-general three
opinions on the case obtained from John
Chipman Gray, of the Harvard law school,
Moorfield Storey, our national president, and
ex-judge William G. Choate, of New York,
all of which strongly upheld the view that
the conviction was an improper one. The
case was duly passed upon by the judge-
advocate-general, the Assistant Secretary of
War and the Secretary of War, and as a
result of the association’s work Samuel
Anderson has been released from confinement
and given his liberty. This does not undo the
wrong done, but at least it saves him from
four and a half years’ imprisonment.
JIMMY
(A Story)
By FRENCH WILSON
FIE little boy (it was a
Negro child) stirred and
tossed feverishly. The
woman (and' she was also
“colored”) knelt by the cot
with all a mother's agony
showing in her dark moist
eyes. Her husband sat beside her, his face
expressing nothing but the patient, suffering,
doglike humility of his race. The tall
physician (he was a white man) straightened
himself and slowly, sorrowfully shook his
head.
“It’s too bad,” he said in his kindly voice.
“The lad’s life is wrecked, physically, and I
fear mentally.”
A tear welled up and dropped from the
woman’s eye. The man had arisen, and now
gazed apathetically down upon the little
patient. The doctor paused in the act of
reaching for his case. Again he shook his
head as he looked at the figure outlined
beneath the coverlet. Bandages, he knew,
covered cruel welts on breast and back. A
bruise on the lip and a gap in the row of
little teeth completed the story. Something
choking arose in his throat. He turned
swiftly away.
“By God,” he muttered fiercely, “it’s un-
bearable. This sort of thing can’t go on.
It must stop.”
He blindly grasped his hat and strode
from the room. At the door he turned:
“Don’t forget. Every hour while he’s
awake. And if anything develops don’t fail
to call me.”
The man followed him downstairs. In
the hall below they looked into each other’s
eyes and their #hands met in a long, firm,
comprehensive grasp. And the doctor left.
The woman looked up when she felt the
man’s comforting arm around her.
“He’ll never have to go through it again,”
she said.•
“No, Lela, he’s ours now.”
“Jimmy,” she whispered. “My boy.”
There was a true love between these two,
the man and the woman, a love that had
started in childhood and remained faithful
until Monroe had graduated from the law
school of H----- University and returned to
take up his practice in his home town, and
to marry the girl of his heart. It had been
a long uphill fight for the young lawyer,
but he had borne his burden unfalteringly
and now was beginning to reap his reward.
Certainly he was a well-known figure in
court circles, and his modern, well-furnished
home gave token of his material prosperity.
* A staunch supporter of his race, his sus-
picions were continually on watch, and there
was never a measure to degrade it that did
not receive his bitterest opposition, and never
one to help or uplift it to which he did not
give his utmost zeal.
When a warden of the State reformatory
surrendered his position and came before
the court with a horrible tale of the mis-
treatment of the children at the institution,
Monroe was one of the first to demand an
investigation; and when, among other.
things, the committee discovered one little
Negro lad almost dead and raving mad, it
was Monroe who, in the fulness of his heart,
procured the child’s immediate release and
carried him to his own home.
Twelve years of age was “Jimmy” Brown.
Twelve orphan years had he lived, and two
of them had been spent under the bane of
the “reform farm.” Twelve years, but the
little figure was frail and the face, thin and
old looking as it was, held nothing of a
boyish nature.
“He’s only a baby.” There was something
oP awe in her voice.
The man gulped and nodded. “Only a
baby.”
The boy awoke. His gaze wandered,
-uncomprehending, over the walls and ceil-
ing until it rested upon the twain kneeling
together by the cot. There was a sharp
exclamation. A wild terror dawned and
deepened in the eyes, and the child shrank
294
THE CRISIS
to the extreme edge of the cot, his face
wincing in pain.
“God,” came in a hoarse whisper from the
man as he turned away.
Some minutes later his wife found him
in his study. Desperation was pictured on
her face and her voice was tremulous as she
asked:
“Won’t you see what you can do with him?
Pie won’t eat or take his medicine, and every
time that I come near him he screams and
looks just awful.”
Without a word the man arose and fol-
lowed her. He noticed how the terror-
stricken eyes fell upon them as they entered
the door, and followed their every move. He
noticed how the thin lips drew back in a.
snarl as he approached the bed. Then it
came to him at once. Of course, force had
always been used.
“Jimmy,” he said in a harsh tone, “be
quiet.”
It hurt him to see the child cowering into
•whimpering obedience, but he grit his teeth
and forced the boy to take and swallow the
medicine. Not until they had retreated to
the other side of the room, however, would
the lad touch the broth which Mrs. Monroe
had prepared, and then it was pitiful to see
the hurried avidity with which he devoured
it, keeping watchful eye, meanwhile, upon his
benefactors.
For one whole delirious week they nursed
him thus. And sometimes there were cries
* and moans, and cruel laughs, and horrible
curses, things that issued strangely from the
boy’s lips, those baby lips that should have
known nothing but childish prattle. And
always there was that terrorstricken look
in the eyes, and ever anon would come that
ugly snarl to his lips.
But one morning the woman found a new
expression on his face. The fear was still
there, but a curiosity lay back of it and the
wildness was gone.
“Dis hyeh fo’ me?” he asked hesitantly,
as she lay his breakfast before him.
“Yes, Jimmy.”
And when he had finished:
“ ’Scuse me, but whut’s yo’ name? Ah
don’ know whut to call yo’-all.”
A great tenderness welled up in the
woman’s breast. She took the little face
between her hands and imprinted a gentle
loss on the thin lips.
“Cfall me mamma, Jimmy,” she said.
“You’re my boy now.”
Jimmy improved slowly, but the doctor
stopped leaving medicine and his calls be-
came less and less frequent, some restriction
on the patient’s diet being removed at every
call.
He was a lovable little chap, uncomplain-
ing, grateful. They loved him and it seemed
as if his frail fingers but drew their hearts
the closer together. He was a born story
teller also, and many an evening was spent
listening to his quaint dialect as he told queer
little tales which he had picked up from
somewhere, or recounted bits of conversation,
scenes or incidents that he had heard or
witnessed from his window. Sometimes he
would break into a boisterous laugh, and
the woman’s hand would reach out and
touch the man’s; and he, understanding,
would return the pressure. But sometimes
the boy’s voice would be grave and there
would be tears in his eyes as he told some
cruel story of the “reform farm.” And
sometimes he would tell of his own mis-
treatment; but then there would be no tears,
only a light that softly glowed:
“ * All’ll break yo sperit, yo’ li’l brack
bastard,’ he sed. ‘Yas, ah’ll show yo’ who’s
de boss.’ An’ he beat me wid dat hosswhup.
An’ w’en ah cried, lie hollahed: ‘Shet up.’
An’ he hit me in de mouf, lak dat. An’ den
ah stahted laffin’. Ah didn’ wantah laff, but
hit seem lak ah jes’ couldn’t he’p it. An’
dat made him mad an’ he beat me a ’hole
lot mo’. An’ somehow ’r othar, ah jes’
couldn’t stop laffin’. An’ bimeby ah jes’
fell ovah an’, he kep’ on beatin’ me. An’
den-----”
“And then what, Jimmy?”
“Don’ know,” with a tired sigh. “ ’Pears
lak ah jes cain’t ricollec’.”
Then the man would clench his hands and
hurriedly leave* the room, and the woman
would clasp the little waif to her breast.
“It’s all right now, Jimmy. You’re my
boy now.”
A contented smile and a murmured:
“Yas’m, ’s all right now.”
The summer waned into, fall, and though
his’face brightened continually, the patient’s
body remained weak and he still had to be
carried up and down for his few daily hours
in the morning and evening air. But the
remembranee of his happy, grateful eyes
lightened Mrs. Monroe’s' household cares
considerably, and the sight of them, after
a hard afternoon’s work, was like a tonic
to the young lawyer.
JIMMY
295
But one day the woman, hearing a cry
from the sickroom, hastened to find Jimmy
on his knees before the window, his form
stiffened in an attitude of fright. When
she • called him he turned with a wild
grating laugh that made her heart sink; she
fell to weeping softly. He yielded to her
comforting arms, but in answer to her
questions he only shook his head. In a few
minutes, however, it was apparently all
over, and if she thought it strange she kept
her ponderings to herself.
Jimmy’s room had now become a settled
meeting place for the family at bedtime.
Attired for the night’s rest, they would dis-
cuss the day’s happenings or lay plans for
the morrow or the next day or for the time
when Jimmy should have convalesced. Or
maybe Monroe would talk of some of the
problems that were confronting him.
One evening he seemed somewhat more
morose than usual. After their conversa-
tion he told his wife, in a low tone, of
several discouraging happenings, certain bills
introduced into the legislature that the
governor had been only too glad to com-
mend; segregation in the civil service, dis-
crimination politically at Washington and
lynchings—two in Texas, one in Alabama,
one in Pennsylvania and two in their own
State. When he had finished there was
silence for a while and then little Jimmy
sadly shook his head:
“Dey does treat mail peop’l bad—
evalnvheh.”
He told of incidents that had come under
his small ken. But at the last the eyes took
on a far-away look and the voice became
Weird:
“But dey’ll come a time w’en mail, peop’l
jes’ won’ stan’ fo’ it no longah. An’- dey’ll
be fiah, an’ shootin-’ an’ men yellin’ and '•
wimmen faintin’ an’ chillun cryin’, , an’
evahbody’ll be jes’ wil’. An’ w’en dat time
gits hyeh----” He trailed off into silence^
“What then, Jimmy?”
The boy smiled and shook his head. But
after the others were asleep he crawled out
of bed and over to the window. One small
finger pointed across the street.
“An’ w’en dat time gits hyeh,” he
repeated, “I’se gwine ter kill him.”
And into his mind came the picture of a
big coarse-faced man holding a horsewhip—
the warden who had nearly finished Jimmy’s
young life and who was now living in the
house just opposite.
The autumn deepened into the haze of
Indian summer and Jimmy advanced so far
that he was able to walk downstairs. Then
it was touching to witness his eagerness to
work, to help with the household duties, to
do something, anything, that might be a
slight return for the kindness shown him.
Mrs. Monroe did assign him a few tasks and
the- sight of his happy, busy little self made
her face her own cares with singing heart,
while Mr. Monroe, seeing the life shining
in the little face again, began to lay plans
for entering him into school at the beginning
of the next term.
Came the day when the man, returning
for dinner, wore a careworn expression on
his usually stolid face, and would vouchsafe
no reply to the woman’s questions.
After the meal, in a constrained voice:
“Could you fix me a little lunch? I might
not be home this evening.”
But he did return that evening, and
agaiu:
“Could you fix me another lunch? I’ll
have to go back.”
Then she caught him by the shoulders and,
looking up into his eyes, said tenderly:
“Frank, you just must tell me. If any-
thing should happen.”
He sat down and covered his face with
his hands.
“It’s not much. Henry Tailor is hiding in
my office.”
“Henry Tailor—hiding—in your office?
Oh, Frank, what is it?”
“White girl living next door was
assaulted- The family accused Tailor.
That’s- about all.”
A low groan escaped the woman’s lips.
The man arose.
f/Well; I’m.trying to get him to give him-
self--up.”
' “Frank, /do you think-----”
-He: nodded.
“I’m-gjoing to try. You know the sheriff
promised, me that no client of. mine would
ever get out. Tailor’s evidence is clean cut.
If----”
And upstairs, crouched before the window,
one tiny finger pointing across the street,
Jimmy was saying:
“An’ w’en dat time gits hyeh, I’se
gwine ter kill him.”
Two days later the man burst into the’
house in midafternoon, with a dark grim-
ness on his lips and a shadowy light in his
eyes.
296
THE CRISIS
“Oh, there’s hell to pay,” he muttered
hoarsely in answer to her unspoken question.
“They’re trying to get him.”
He dashed up the stairs, grabbed his
cartridge belt with the brace of holsters,
fastened it about him under his coat as he
hurried down, roughly kissed his wife and,
with a slam of the door, was gone.
Jimmy awoke with noise ringing in his
ears. He listened eagerly. Yes, there it
was. He could hear the shooting and the
shouting. At last, at
last. The time had ar-
rived. He dressed with
trembling, hastening
fingers and stole softly
into Monroe’s room. • He
noticed that the brace of
pistols was gone, but
what he wanted hung on
the wall beside an old
rifle—a slender, stiletto-
like hunting knife.
The woman did not
hear the soft opening
and closing of the door.
Neither did she see the
little figure gliding across
tlje street. Nor did she
witness the disappoint-
ment on the face as he
sensed, somehow, that his
enemy was out of reach,
and crouched in sudden
weakness beside the fence.
A discouraging fear
stole over the boy’s soul,
and the knife in his hand
seemed to mock him.
Then he started and
looked around the corner
of the fence, realizing
that the noise that
awakened him had been
steadily growing and now
was almost deafening.
He saw men and boys
running back and forth,
and behind, a great crowd of them, yelling
like infuriated demons, pushing, pulling,
dragging, knocking, kicking along one
defenseless Negro, one of “his people.”
He shivered and a sob arose in his throat.
But the next instant the starting tears
drew back and his muscles tensed. For
the last ray of the setting- sun had fallen
squarely on the distorted features of a man
who had his hand twisted in the victim’s
collar.
“It's him”
A moment’s hesitation and—a small dark
figure shot out into the street, threading its
way through the legs of the crowd toward
the cruel-faced warden. One instant and the
flashing blade had buried itself in the fel-
low’s breast. The next—and the boy was
knocked down and trodden under the feet
of the mob.
The woman moaned
and it seemed to the
listening man that in the
sound of her voice was
embodied all the pulsing
grief of a mother race for
her sons. The boy on the
cot lay very still. The
flesh hung on his bones
in quivering shreds, a
deep furrow showed
where a bullet had
ploughed along his
crushed face, and it
seemed to the three who
watched in silent woe
that each feeble breath
that dragged into the
shattered lungs must be
the last.
“Oh, God, how longt”
came through the.gritted
teeth of the physician,
and the man knew that
the cry was against the
prejudice and vicious
license that had placed
the boy there.
A long stillness fol-
lowed while they watched
the life ebb in and out of
the little body.
At last the eyes opened,
and back of their poig-
nant suffering lay the
peace of great content. The lips essayed to
move, and three hearts stood still as the three
heads bent to catch the husky, broken
whisper.
“A’—go’—got ’im.”
Silence. Then one long despairing wail
from the woman:
“Jimmy !”•
THE NEGRO AS A LAND OWNER
gg	By HENRY W. WILBUR*	gg
CONOMIC	prosperity has
come to all the races of
men more normally and
easily by	land ownership
and successful tilling of the
soil than in any other way.
In short, this is the road
of progress for men along the line of least
resistance.	This observation is literally true
applied	to	the American	Negro, whether
we consider him in the North as a trans-
planted citizen from Dixie, or on his native
heather in the Southland, where the sweat
of his ancestors contributed so largely to
the economic prosperity of the master class,
and indirectly to that hold-over prejudice
and injustice which stares the Negro in the
face in the South and unfortunately to a
considerable extent in the North.
Economic possibility for any class of men
who are practically without capital de-
mands cheap land. The South has such
land; in the main, the North has not. For
that reason the combined land and Negro
question has its most natural .application
in the South. But conditions are rapidly
shifting in that section. Land is increasing
in value, and in all probability the cheap
land of the South will be either segregated
or appropriated within a decade.
Very soon the land speculator will be in
evidence, and land will be secured and held
for the easy unearned increment which
walks side by side and in the wake of an
expanding civilization. The Negro’s oppor-
tunity as a land owner is likely to be
further endangered by the growing disposi-
tion to enforce a rule of race segregation
applied to land ownership. The purpose
of this plan, which is now being vigorously
pushed in the South is to put it within
the power of the dominant land-owning
race in any community to decide by vote
of the favored class that men of the pro-
scribed race shall not be allowed to purchase
or hold land in such community. It is
bluntly admitted that the plan will work
infallibly to keep the white community
white, but cannot be employed to keep the
black neighborhood black.
The conditions outlined demand a well-
organized and vigorously applied plan .to
secure the Negro a share of the soil of his
native land before it is too late. Such
plan can be projected as a business transac-
tion, involving practically no possibility of
loss. While the plan should contain the
element of a wise sympathy, it should not
be philanthropic to the extent of any
attempt to pauperize the Negro. What the
black man wants is not charity, but a
chance.
There are colored men in every Southern
community who under proper conditions
can buy land, produce crops and pay for
their farms. They are doing it now under
such an unfavorable handicap as would
paralyze the average Northern man who has
had to become a land owner by first
becoming a borrower. Two ways of practi-
cally and safely helping the Southern Negro
to become a successful tiller of his own
farm present themselves.
The first thing to do is to face a situa-
tion already prevalent in many communi-
ties in Dixie. That involves helping colored
men to carry the load of debt under which
they are now necessarily struggling. In the
first place, the interest charges are heavier
than are warranted by the earning capacity
of the land, except under the most con-
tinuous favorable circumstances. It is
almost axiomatic that nowhere can the land
pay 12 to 18 per cent, interest on the pur-
chase price and permit the debtor owner
to pay off the principal, at the same time
maintaining a family in a self-respecting
environment. Help of the kind indicated
means an organized plan to loan money at
a reasonable rate of interest, with such
protection involved as would tide the land
holder over the occasional lean years, which
are bound to come, until there is ' an
approach to economic prosperity.
The second phase of the Negro land
movement has immediate and prospective
possibilities. It involves the same system
of loans referred to above, but does not
stop there. It calls for the purchase of
tracts of land to be held and sold to
Negroes for cost plus accrued interest.
_ This is vital if the Negro is to have any
place on the land, save occasionally as a
tenant, but generally as a servant, with the
298
THE CRISIS
dangers of serfdom constantly confronting
him as a menace. By a fine-spun interpre-
tation of the character of a financial obliga-
tion to the landlord, on the part of the
Negro tenant, a diluted sort of serfdom is
already at hand.
Either the loan scheme or the land-pur-
chase scheme, or both, are financially safe.
The land in the South is bound to steadily
increase in value. The only element of
philanthropy and sympathy in the plans
outlined is held in solution in the purpose.
First, to make the interest charge so rea-
sonable and legal that the colored land
owner, who is a borrower, shall be protected
from the money loan shark from without,
and from the paralysis of hope from with-
in. This depression is sure to come to the
man who is uneasy under the constant
consciousness that a single crop failure may
cause him to be dispossessed and lose all he
had paid on his farm.
In the land-purchase scheme the possible
philanthropic element is the purpose to
give the benefit of the unearned increment,
not to the speculator, but to the Negro
purchaser. Those who put their money into
either plan are sure of its return and the
legal rate of interest on their investment.
the rest being that they forego the increase
of land value for the economic good of the
race whose sweat has already enriched the
soil of the Southland.
These plans do not contemplate giving
the Negroes money. They do not anticipate
loaning money to the shiftless, the intem-
perate or the improvident. On the other
hand, they demand a businesslike inquiry,
into the standing of every probable buyer
of land or borrower of money. The good
results contemplated are twofold. Apart
from the benefits to accrue to buyers and
borrowers, the plans applied will be re-
wards for persistent, honest effort and in-
centives to self-help, and the approach to
success on the part of the Negroes.
No better opportunity for the capitalist
and the careful philanthropist to do good
to the blacks and do no harm to themselves
exists than is outlined in these plans to
help the submerged race to be self-respect-
ing and successful farmers. They are
attached to the soil. As a result of freedom,
after their long period of servitude, it
would be economically and morally just to
help the race rise as citizens of a free
government, as economically free men on
the soil.

IN MOSLEM SPAIN__________
Hi E3	By JOSEPH F. GOULD	^ [gj
T is not generally known that
•the Negro appeared in
history as a soldier of .the
Egyptian Pharaohs cen-
turies before we find him as
a slave. Perhaps no other
race in existence has had
as long a record of military progress, and.
one of the most interesting epochs of the
Negro’s martial career was spent in Spain
as the ally of the tolerant Arab and Berber
conquerors.
One of the great pro-Islamic poets was
Antar, whose mother was a black slave, and
his father a powerful chief. The poems of
Antar are still extant jand there is a long
romance describing his deeds of prowess,
which finally compelled his father to acknowl-
edge him as his heir. Thenceforth it would
seem that being of Negro blood did not
prevent any Arab from claiming the posi-
tion which was his due, and so one of the
first events in the career of the Negro in
Spain was the attempt of Ibn Horaith, the
son of the chief of the Judhamite tribe of
Arabs, bv a Negro woman, to gain the
emirate in Spain.
Thoaba, the emir, died in the year 746, and
his son, Amr, claimed his father’s place. Ibn
Horaith disputed the succession. Ibn Horaith
had such a dislike for the Syrian Arabs that
he said: “If one bowl contained the blood
of all the Syrians I would drain it to the
dregs.v For this reason Sumayl, the leader
of the Syrians in Spain, used his influence
to have Yusuf, of the tribe of Fihrites, ap-
pointed emir, and Ibn Horaith was made
prefect of Regio to console him.
Sumayl, by treachery, had Ibn Horaith
deprived of his prefecture in January, 747,
after'he had enjoyed that honor only a little
while. Ibn Horaith allied himself with
IN MOSLEM SPAIN
299
Abu’l Khattir, another pretender to the
emirate, who reluctantly gave up his claim
because the tribe to which Ibn Horaith
belonged was most numerous in Spain. This
open quarrel revived a feud of very remote
antiquity between the Northern and
Southern Arabs, and the nobles enrolled
themselves under the banners of the oppos-
ing clans.
The battle took place at Secunda, a
suburb of Cordova, and the remains of an
old Roman walled town. There were only
two or three hundred on each side, and they
fought in the manner of the old chivalry.
At first they tourneyed until all the spears
were shattered, and then drew their swords,
and when these broke they fought with clubs
and their bare fists.
Toward evening Sumayl, the Syrian, de-
parted from this fair procedure and sent to
Cordova for reinforcements of tradespeople.
By force of numbers the party of Ibn
Horaith was conquered and in the dusk he
sought to escape by hiding under a mill.
Thereupon his former ally, Abu’l Khattir,
pointed him out to Sumayl and, wkh a taunt
for Ibn Horaith’s hatred of the Syrians,
said: “Son of a Negress, is there one drop
left in your bowl?” Sumayl beheaded Ibn
Horaith with his own hand, and then, be-
cause the blood lust had seized him, he slew
seventy of his followers.
In October, 99S, Muzaffar, the son of the
Caliph Alraanzor, fought a battle near Ceuta,
in North Africa, against Ziri, the Berber.
The combat waged from dawn to sunset and
Muzaffar was on the verge of defeat. A
Negro whose brother had been put to death
by Ziri’s command avenged himself by
wounding Ziri * thrice and then fode off at
full speed to the Spanish lines. At first the
Negro’s story was not believed because the
banner of the Berbers still floated aloft.-
Finally, Muzaffar was convinced and ordered
a charge, which put the Berbers to flight.
Three years later Ziri died when his wounds
were reopened.
Early in the eleventh century Kasim Ibn
Hammud bought Negroes from Berber slave
traders, freed them and entrusted important
posts to their leaders. This action caused
resentment among the people of Cordova, of
which city he was caliph. On August 12,
1021, he was forced to flee with only five
horsemen, and his nephew, Yahya,
entered the city. Kasim was joined bv . his
faithful Negroes, -and on February 12, 1023,
he took advantage of Yahya’s absence
in Malaga to enter the city. On September
6 the Cordovans again expelled his forces,
but with his Negro troops he besieged them
and cut off their supply of food. On
October 31 the Cordovans, in a concentrated
force, sallied out and put the attenuated
line of besiegers to flight, but the Negroes
made a desperate resistance and only sur-
rendered when Kasim had fled. Kasim was
later captured at Xeres.
. Yahya Ibn Hammud had been im-
pressed by the loyalty of the Negroes to
his uncle, and so he employed them to gar-
rison Carmona, a city he had captured from
the cadi of Seville. In November, 1035,
Ismail, the son of this cadi, lured Yahya from
his secure position within the city walls and
slew’ him in battle. Nevertheless, the Negroes
who held the city gates and walls would not
surrender to Ismail or Ibn Abdallah, the
former ruler of Carmona, and they were
nearly annihilated by their foes. At Alge-
ciras Negro soldiers played the role of king-
makers and proclaimed Mohammed, a cousin
of Yahya, caliph, but this venture was
unsuccessful.
Zuhair, of Almeria, was unpopular among
his subjects because he was a so-called Slav
prince—that is, a descendent of Northern
mercenaries, such as the mamelukes of more
recent times. Ibn Abbas, his vizier, gave
him treacherous advice, which induced him
to make an expedition into Granadan terri-
tory. On August 3, 1038, he found himself
surrounded. His Slav cavalry fled when
their leader, Hudhail, was dismounted, and
his Andalusian troops were dispirited and
useless. His 500 Negro infantry thereupon
seized the armory and went over to the
enemy. It is possible that. their desertion
was prearranged also, for Badis, king of
Granada, was devoid of religious and racial
prejudice and had a Jew, Samuel Ibn Nag-
dela, for vizier and a Negro, Kodam, as
provost-marshal.
In the year 1047 Idris II., of Malaga, was
deposed when the Negro troops who gar-
risoned his citadel declared for his cousin,
Mohammed. The inhabitants of Malaga were
anxious to attempt to storm the heights, but
Idris declared them impregnable and said
he would submit to the decree of Fate with-
out further bloodshed.
Ten days later Malaga was annexed by
Badis, of Granada, who continued the em-
ployment of a Negro garrison. This was a
300
THE CRISIS
wise measure, as the blacks were very loyal
to him, whereas the Arabs, who were
numerous in Malaga, disliked the rule of a
Berber and were intriguing with Mutadid, of
Seville. Mutadid sent his son, A1 Mutamid,
to aid the Arabs of Malaga. A1 Mutamid
was dilatory in pressing the siege and the
Negroes in the citadel managed to get word
through the hostile lines to Badis, who sent
strong reinforcements.
Yusuf Ibn Tashfin, the leader of the
Almoravides, fought a battle with Alfon.so
VT., of Castille, at Zallaka, on October 23,
1086. Alfonso was hemmed in on both sides,
but resisted stubbornly. At a crucial moment
Yusuf ordered his Negro guards, whom he
had held in reserve, to charge. They did ter-
rible execution and one of them cut his way
through to Alfonso and wounded him in the
thigh with, a dagger. This fight won the
victory and Alfonso could only save a small
remnant of his forces.
In Moslem Spain co-operation between
Arabs and Berbers or Arabs of different
tribes was impossible except in the face of
a common danger, and for this reason Jews
and Negroes were given opportunities to
serve the State because they were neutrals
as regards the feuds between Arab and
Berber, and because they had no connection
with tribes they had more personal loyalty.
It was an age of each for himself and there
are instances of Negroes looking out for
their own advantages regardless of the side
for which they fought. On the whole,
though, in that age of treachery and low
standards, the Negro soldier was unusually
grateful and faithful to those who used him
well, and his physical courage was never
called in question.
i— —
SONG AND STORY

“Afro-American Folksongs,’’ a study in racial
and national music. By H. E. Krehbiel. 176 pages.
8. Schirmer, New York.
Krehbiel's “Afro-American Folksongs” is
the most important contribution to the lit-
erature of Negro art that has been made
for several years. Mr. Krehbiel is the
musical critic on the New York Tribune
and has written the book to settle the ques-
tion which some people have-tried to argue:
that the songs of the Negro slaves were not
original folksongs native to the Negroes of
this land.
The author finds absolutely no reason to
doubt this. He ridicules those who deny
and speaks of the “clamor from one class
of critics which disclosed nothing so much
as their want of intelligent discrimination
unless it was their ungenerous and illiberal
• attitude toward a body of American citi-
zens to whom at least must be credited the
creation of a species of song in which an
undeniable great composer had recognized
artistic potentialities hitherto neglected, if
not suspected, in the land of its origin.
While the critics quarreled, however, a
group of American musicians acted on
Dr. Dvorak's suggestion, and music in the
serious, artistic forms, racy of the soil from
which the slave songs had sprung, was pro-
duced by George W. Chadwick, Henry
Schoenberg, Edward R. Kroeger and
others.”
He shows how certain impulses from
these songs are to-day capturing the world.
“The songs created by the Negroes while
they were slaves on the plantations of the
.South have cried out in vain for scientific
study, though ‘ragtime' tunes, which are
their debased offspring, have seized upon
the fancy of the civilized world. This popu-
larity may be deplorable, but it serves at
least to prove that a marvelous potency lies
in the characteristic, rhythmical element of
the slave songs. Would not a wider and
truer knowledge of their other character-
istics as well lead to the creation of a
better art than that which tickles the ears
and stimulates the feet of the pleasure
seekers of London, Paris, Berlin and Vienna
even more than it does those of New
York?”
Again and again he declares that “the
songs of the black slaves of the South are
original and native products. They contain
idioms which were transplanted hither from
Africa, but as songs they are the product
SONG AND
of American institutions; of the social,
political and geographical environment
within which their creators were placed in
America; of the influences to which the}’
were subjected to in America; of the joys,
sorrows and experiences which fell to their
lot in America.”
Mention is made of the interesting music
and musical instruments ot Africa and the
beautiful black creole music. It seems that
both the “tango” and “turkey-trot” dances,
together with the Cuban “Habanera” and
other well-known dances, are due to the
colored man. Indeed, the whole of this in-
teresting book is an amplification and scien-
tific proof of Dvorak’s celebrated dictum
concerning American folksongs:
“The most potent, as well as the most
beautiful among them, according to my esti-
mation, are certain of the so-called planta-
tion melodies and slave songs, ail of which
are distinguished b}r unusual and subtle
harmonies, the thing which I have found in
no other songs but those of Scotland and
Ireland.”
m
“Liberia.” By Frederick Starr. 277 pages.
Chicago, 1918.
“Military Morale of Nations and Races.” By
CharleB Young. 270 pages. Franklin Hudson Pub-
lishing Oo., -Kansas City, Mo.
Two books associate themselves curiously
on our table—one is by a white student of
Liberia, the other by a colored worker for
Liberia’s true freedom. Starr’s “Liberia”
is an excellent handbook which treats
Liberia’s problems sympathetically. What
Professor Starr recommends Major Charles
Young is endeavoring to carry out with the
same unwavering sense of duty that has
always characterized his work. This innate
sense of the best characteristics of the ideal
soldier he has written down in his treatise.
It is academic and a bit “military,” but
there is charm and straightforwardness in
its naivete.
m
Turning from information to literature we
have before us three little books: The first,
“A Little Dreaming,” by Fenton Johnson.
Readers of The Crisis have often read bits
of Johnson’s poetry. The poems are very
uneven in value, but here and there are bits
of real singing and the hint of an unusual
message, as in the “Ethiopian’s Song.”
STORY	301
Dream of a Whisper.
I shall dream! shall dream
Of a whisper soft
From the lips divine,
From the lips aloft,
From the lips of Circe.
And my soul awakes,
Though my eyes are closed;
Pleasure fills my veins,
As when Venus rose
Sea nymphs laughed so softly.
Fair enchantress, weave,
Weave a dream for me;
Let my Hellas live
Down beside the sea—
Sea of starlit strangeness.
S
Teachers and parents who want stories for
their children ought to buy A. 0. Stafford’s
“Animal Fables from the Dark Continent.”
Mr. Stafford is a teacher in the Washington
colored schools and has done excellent work
in Negro folklore. The little book is illus-
trated, and published by the American Book
Company.
m
“A Child’s Story of Dunbar,” by Miss
Julia L. Henderson, has for a year or more
been used in some of the Texas public
schools. It is an interesting little book and
ought to have a wider circulation. The
Crisis sells it for 25 cents.
“The Strange Case of Eric Marotte.” By J. I.
Pearce. 866 pages. Published by the author.
Chicago.
A novel comes to us. In spite of the
pretentiousness and verbosity of the author’s
style, there is for the colored reader a
strain of interest, until it dawns upon him
that in the end John, the supposedly col-
ored hero, will turn out to be a dark white
man. All of the sympathy which the
author has seemed to lavish upon the Negro
is really for the white man who is thought
to be a Negro, and his real attitude toward
the colored people is shown by such
phrases as “taint of Negro blood,” “the
curse of color,” and the words which he
puts-into the mouth of John concerning his
white sweetheart: “She would have married
me even knowing me to be a Negro, except
that I forbade the sacrifice.”
LITTLE lynching at Shreve-
port:
“Frank and Ernest Will-
iams, Negroes, were shot to
death by a mob a short
distance from Blanchard,
about 10 o’clock last Tues-
day morning. They were taken from
Deputy Sheriff F. W. Ratliffe by a crowd
of fifteen or twenty men, who are said to
have been masked. •	•	*
“It was Ernest Williams who testified
before the coroner’s jury, in the Ballard
case, that he had seen the murdered man at
4 o’clock Thursday evening, and it was
Frank Williams who gave the alarm Satur-
day morning that Ballard was missing. * * *
“Calvin Ballard, who kept a general
store four miles from Blanchard, was found
murdered in his place of business last
Saturday. He was last seen alive the
Thursday afternoon previous, and as the
store failed to open, a Negro living in the
vicinity notified Mack Wasson, Ballard’s*
brother-in-law, who investigated and found
the body, which lay between the counter
and shelving. The victim had been shot
in the left side of the face and had proba-
bly been dead a day when found.
“In 1909 Calvin Ballard was sent to the
State penitentiary for ten years, having
been convicted of manslaughter. He killed
his brother, D. E. Ballard, in a quarrel
about a Negro. He served about two years
of his sentence when he was pardoned for
preventing a wholesale escape of Negro
convicts. Ballard, who was a trusty, is
said to have killed two of the convicts on
that occasion.
“After Ballard’s return home he engaged
in the mercantile business with his brother-
in-law, the firm being Ballard & Wasson,
and doing business at Albany, near Blanch-
ard. The store is three miles from the
nearest railroad and there are no telephones
in that section, which is sparsely settled,
principally by small Negro farmers. Bal-
lard was 37 years old.”—Louisiana Herald.
“In referring to the case of the killing of
one, Calvin Ballard, white, and the mobbing
of the two Negroes, near Blanchard, La.,
they were mobbed as usual without judge
or juror. That the man was killed by
someone of ' his own color, and that the
Negroes were not guilty, is the general
opinion. It seems that they were Negroes
who visited the place quite often and at
times worked about the place. It is re-
ported that this older Negro was the first
one to come up to the store for two or
three days, and on approaching he saw the
store closed; going up to it and looking
through the window he saw this man lying
dead, and he hastened away and informed
the neighborhood. He and his brother were
afterward run down and lynched, for it is
dangerous to report a dead man, should you
happen to come upon one, and dangerous
not to report it. Is there any hope of
refuge?”—A Reader.
m
“A Negro is a person of African blood
(much or little) about whom men of Eng-
lish descent tell only half the truth, and'
because of whom they do not act with
frankness and sanity, either toward the
Negro or to one another—in a word, about
whom they easily lose their common sense,
their usual good judgment, and even their
powers of accurate observation. The Negro
in America, therefore, is a form of insanity
that overtakes white men.”—Walter H.
Page, Ambassador to England.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
303
VtaUmcrllii Skrital
By JACOB PEASE
(Instructor at the Mando Mozart Conservatory
and member of the New Amsterdam Musical
Association and of the Clef Club Orchestra.)
AT
5 West 125th Street (Y. M. C. A. Hall)
New York City
Tuesday Evening, April 21, 1914
AT EIGHT O’CLOCK
Accompanied by Melville Charlton
Admission—35 cents and 50 cents
Tickets may be secured by applying to:
John W. Dias, 1603 Pacific Street, Brooklyn, N. Y.
Melville Charlton, 405 Cumberland St., B’klyn, N. Y.
Jacob Pease, 2137 Madison Avenue, New York City.
Homes in Long Island!
Few people realize the wonderful possibilities of Long Island
property, the rapid growth of that section of the city and its wonderful
future.
WE ARE SELLING GOOD HOMES IN CORONA, with all
improvements, only five cents carfare to New York. Corona is in the
very center of Greater New York, and in a few months will be reached
by the rapid transit lines of Manhattan, giving to the people of that
section of the city a five-cent carfare to any section of Manhattan.
The only place within thirty minutes of Times Square, Grand
Central Station or the Pennsylvania Station, where the man of small
means can get a modern home with all improvements at a moderate
cost. We would be glad to have you visit Corona at our expense.
Corona is one of the highest elevations in New York City, has an
excellent car service, good schools, excellent water supply and the best
place in all New York for children. For full particulars as to price
and terms address
L. S. REED & COMPANY
142 Hunter Avenue - - - - -	• -	- Long Island City
Some choice investment lots for $50 on reasonable terms
Mention The Crisis
304
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER

PUBLISHERS’ CHAT
m
MHHJ LI Ijp ill ili IJ P IHi 1J [I I) 1 111 I.
Now for a circulation of 50,0001
At last we have adequate office
space and equipment. Kindly call.
Our Atlanta number comes in May.
The June number is Annual Con-
ference number. Other numbers will
follow.
Here are a few bouquets which we
modestly reprint:
“The Crisis, a magazine with the
largest circulation ever obtained by
a publication edited by a colored
man.”—O. G. Villard, in the North
American Review.
“The Crisis, a particularly bright
and intelligent organ of the American
colored people.”—Will Allen White’s
Emporia Gazette.
“The Crisis * * * one of the
dynamic forces of this century.”—
S. Priestley Smith, in the Blenheim
(England) Magazine.
“I am very glad you are editing
The Crisis, and you are doing it
admirably.”—William Hayes Ward,
of the Independent.
“Paste pot and shears.”—Washing-
ton Bee.
“The Freeman is the peer of Negro jour-
nals, circulating in every State and Territory
in the United States, an accomplishment which
cannot be claimed by any other Negro pub-
lication. Send us your subscription at once.”
—The Indianapolis Freeman.
You are mistaken, sweet cousin.
The Crisis circulates in every single
State of this Union, in each of our
dependent Territories, and in Europe,
Asia, Africa and Australia. Our
present edition, 36,000, is the largest
edition of a periodical ever issued by
colored men in the world. Excuse
our candor.

Tlhis
BesLotifiuil
20 Inchon Wldo
lO Inchon Long
Only 445
you Laaa than you pay clcowhoro for ordinary ’
Stay-Tyde Willow Plumes
23in. wide 22 In. long 0.00 2dlir.wido 25 In. long 7.00
25In. wldo 24 In. long G.OO 29in. wide 27 In. long 0.00
___________80 In. wide 27 In. long 011.00_______
We bnvo established a world-
wide reputation on our No.401 mag-
nificent ia-inch French Curl Plume,
mode or rich, tfloeay, beat male
acock, with wldo. broad flbjea and
heavy French head.
DUicjc, white and colore
French CnrI Plume*
17	in.. Special, 01.00
18	'*	“	2 40
19	*' Ex-wldo, 8.00
20	**	•• 7.80
22 “	«* 10.00
Send 26c to covor express charges and wo will ship
any of above C.O.D. for freo examination. Or, send
full purchase price and we will Bond all charges pre-
paid. Money promptly refunded if for any reason yon
are not satisfied.
Send for freo catoloff of French or Willow Plames,
Ostrich Bands and Aigrettes, and get a completo $tS
Course in Millinery, Dyolng, Cleaning, Curling, etc.
SOUTH AFRICAN IMPORTING CO.
1341 Wabash Avo. Dept* ISO CHICAGO
Cofaxed accents Wanted a^exi^Aicxc to Auppftj
tfie fief demand fax aux	cjxaxLe. CafRrnj
CaxA& £ateot otijfao and	fax faAieO ax
ejentfemen, \2itfi ax ■vCitftout addacAA, 100 fax 50
cento ax 50 fax 25 cento Out|it fxee oLax^a
cammiooian. (bxcfuoide texxitaxy. CJfP axdexo
fiffed pxa mpthj	fax AampfaA and texmo.
tTixeTKuuAOe af CfxaWnincj, Andianapalis, And
DO YOU ADVERTISE?
If you want to bring your business to the
attention of 150,000 discriminating reader#
advertise in THE CRISIS. Advertising
rate cards will be sent on application..
The Crisis
70 Fifth Avenue	- New York
Mention The Ceisxs
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
305
Hamm e r 2 o o ?v
Double-Barrel Shot
Gun—vorv ouperior. Fitted with
top snap-break, bar side locks, forged
frame, case hardened locks and frames.
Nicely finished, highly polished stock and
fore end. Polished blued steel barrels;
choke bored, 12 Gauge and either 30 or 32
inch barrels. Well balanced and accurate.
A porfoot beauty. The same model used by
Borne of the best shots in the country.
fl
fl
All that we require is that you show our ft
■ Borne of the best shots in the country. We give it h
g flbselaSslj/ FREE to Oyr&genfs §
i..............................
i
samples and take a few orders for our
special made-to-measure clothes. We
pay highest cash profits and give extra
presents besides. Your choice of 628
valuable premiums—such as Leather Suit
Cases, Musical Instruments, Pipes,
Watches, Sporting Goods, Hats, * etc.
Writs for elegant free outfit and full jxirticutars
•PENCUR MEAD CO., Dopt 819. CHICAGO
8
i
i
i
Big Pay for Easy Work
If You Live in a Small Town
We want 5000 agents — 5000 bright, young men
willing to hnatle and earn $5.00 to $15.00 a day
selling our fine hand-made-to-measure clothes.
This throws open one good job In every oommunlty
or town of not over 10.000 people.	_
To the first man in yoar town who
writes us, will be given the iSrst opportuni
to got onr Complete Sample Out-
fit Free. You need no experience, but
start right out making money— $2.00 to $9.CO
profit on every salt yon sell. Wholesale
Prices for Balts $7.98 to $28 00-Pants
$2.48 to $8.50. Wo prepay ths postage
express on every shipment.
Every garment Is made-to-order
and strictly hand tailored. Satis-
faction Guaranteed or Your
Money Back.
To prove to yon the nnequaled
quality of onr tailoring, we will let
you order a Sample Suit or even a '
pair of pants at the mholeeale price.
Remember, wo want only one agent In each town.
Someone else from your town may write ns to-
morrow—so don't delay—bat mall your letter today.
The Chicago Tailors’ Association
Dept. 265 Van Boren and Market Sts.. CHICAOO
WAITED—ONE MAN OE WOMAN IN EVERY
locality to start a Candy Kitchen. Beat paying
small business on earth. Few dollars starts yon.
Get away from wage slavery. Write for particu-
lars. Native Herbarium Co., Ambler, Pa.
WANTED
Agents for The Crisis. Dignified
work. Address: 70 Fifth Avenue,
New York.
$<§© A WEEK and EXPENSES
That's ths money you can get this year.- I mean It. I want County 8ales Managers
quick, men or womon who bellevs In the aquare deal, who will go Into partnership with
me. No capital or experience needed. My folding Bath Tub baa taken the country by
storm. Solves the bathing problem. No plumbing, no water works required. Full length
bath In any room. Folda In small roll, handy aa an umbrella. I t«U you lt'a great 1
GREAT I Rivals $100 bath room. Now listen 1 I want YOU to handle your county.
I'll furnish demonstrating tub free. I’m positive—absolutely certain—you can get bigger
money In a week with me than you ever made in a month before—I KNOW IT!
TWO SALES A DAY—$300 A MONTH
YOU!
YES.Y0U
CAN GET IT
That'* what
sales. Immense
Mathias. Florida.
month. Needed In every home, badly wanted, eagerly bought,
for all the people. Take the orders right and laft. Quick
Look at these men. Kunkle. Ohio, received $340 first week:
In two days; Corrigan. New York. $114 In 60 hours: Newton.
California, $60 in three days. You can do aa well. TWO
SALES A DAY MEANS $300 A MONTH. The work is very
easy, pleasant, permanent, fascinating. It means a business
of your own.
I grant credit, furnish sample, help you out. back you up—
don't doubt, don't bealtate. don't hold back. You cannot
lose. My other men are building homes, bank accounts, so
can you. Act. then, quick. SEND NO MONEY. Just name
on penny post card for free tub offer. Hustle 1
H. §. KOBINSON
President
180 Vanco St, Toledo, O.
DEMONSTRATING
TUB FREE
Canadian Address: WalkerviUe, Ont., Canada.
Mention Thk Cams
306
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
IN FREEDOM’S
BIRTHPLACE
A Study of the Boston Negroes
By John Daniels, sometime holder
of the South End House Fellowship
in Harvard University; now secretary
of the Social Service Corporation.
Baltimore, Maryland. With an intro-
duction by Robert A. Woods, head of
the South End House.
The first comprehensive, impartial
analysis of the problems affecting a
large colored population in a Northern
city. The result of nine years' sifting
of facts from every quarter.
Particularly suggesfive as showing
the present attitude of the city of the
Abolitionists 'toward the Negro, not
as a distant sentiment, but as a fellow-
citizen and neighbor.
496 pages; $1.50 net. Postage extra.
HOUGHTON MIFFLIN CO.
4 Park Street	Boston, Mass.
Atlanta University
Studies ©f the
Negro Problems
17 Monographs	- Sold Separately
Address:
ATLANTA UNIVERSITY CONFERENCE
Atlanta University, Atlanta, Ga.
The Curse of Race Prejudice
By James F. Morton, Jr., A. M.
An aggressive erposuro by an Anglo-Saxon
champion of equal rights. Startling facts and crush-
ing arguments. Fascinating reading. A necessity
for clear understanding and up-to-date propaganda.
Belongs in the library of every friend of social
justice. Price 25 cents. Send orders to
JAMES F. MORTON, JR.
244 West 143d Street -	-	- New York, N. Y.
“HEAVEN AND HELL”
Swedenborg’s great work; 400 pages; 15 cents,
postpaid. Pastor Landenberger, Windsor Place,
St. Louis, Mo.
James Webb
Read Webb’s Biblical Works of
THE BUCK MAN’S PART IN THE BIBLE
Jesus Was a Black Man
(or Negro) by Blood.
A NEW BOOK entitled
The Black Man Was the Father of
Webb’s book and picture show it and prove it
by the Bible. A picture 12x18 of Tesus with
woolly hair and His Holy Angels' at His second
coming. And a book showing tnat Jesus was born
out of the black tribe, according to Biblical history.
This famous picture in colors and the Biblical
book both for $1.50, postage prepaid. The follow-
ing comment is upon the same, from the Seattle,
Washington Daily Times:
“The evidence submitted by Elder Webb tending
to prove that the Saviour of mankind was a black
man seems to be sufficient to put those who
oppose the proposition upon their proof. Now that
tne chain of evidence presented by Mr. Webb
seems so complete,’ it is strange that none of the
delvers in the Biblical records have advanced the
roposition before. Not only was Christ a Negro,
ut it seems that Solomon, who has been held up
through all the ages as the personification of
wisdom, had Ethiopian blood in his veins also.”
Civilization.
This book defends its title exclusively by the
Bible and therefore ha9 nothing to fear. This
book is illustrated with many pictures. Price
$1.00 by mail. The following comment is from
the Seattle Daily Post-Intelligencer:
“Elder J. M. Webb, Evangelist of the Church
of God, in bis book describes the black man as the
father of all civilization. He takes the Bible to
show that the fathers of the Church and all the
great leaders, even the Greatest One, was black.
Mr. Webb’s work is able and thoughtful. Whether
the Anglo-Saxon believes him or not, Mr. Webb
writes what he believes to be true about his race
and their place in Biblical history.”
Combination of both books and pictures for $2, postage prepaid.
Send money order, express order or registered letter to
ELDER J. M. WEBB	3519 State Street, Chicago, 111.
WILL SUBMIT TERMS TO AGENTS,
Mention The Crisis
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
307
Masterpieces of
Negro Eloquence
Edited by Alice Moore Dunbar.
The one volume that contains the best
speeches of fifty-one of the ablest Negroes of
the United States, England, Africa and France,
from 1818 to 1913. The wonderful eloquence
of the most powerful Negro men and women
of the world is contained in this book. Nothing
more interesting and inspiring has ever been
written.
If you would know of the history of the
race, appreciate the sacrifice for principle,
understand the struggle for liberty, and prop-
erly value the oratorical achievement of the
Negro, you should place this book in your
library.
The “Masterpieces of Negro Eloquence” will take you back to 1818, when
Prince Saunders in his fascinating style eloquently pleaded for the abolition of
slavery. It will give you the speech of Henry Highland Garnett, the first Negro
ever asked to deliver a sermon in the United States House of Representatives;
the speech of Frederick Douglass, who in 1852 with unexcelled eloquence
demanded at Rochester to know, “What to the Slave Is the Fourth of July?”;
the speech that made Booker Washington famous; an estimate of Toussalnt
L’Ouverture, by James McCune Smith, that ranks with Wendell Phillips’s famous
eulogy; Charles M. Langston’s defiance of the Fugitive Slave Law, delivered in
1859; Judge Ruffin's famous eulogy of Crispus Attucks, a speech that should be
read by every Negro boy and girl.
These are but a few of the gems culled at random from this great book.
The best of our present generation is well represented.
This is a book that is a library, a reference book and an historical work,
an indispensable addition to the library of every intelligent Negro. A book that
shows in the best manner the best that the Negro has done.
It is carefully edited, well printed and thoroughly indexed, bound r......	....
in red and green silk cloth binding, 512 pages, gold top, uncut pages. / crisis Coupon
We want every reader of The Crisis to have a copy of this /
book. We have set aside 50,000 copies which we are going to sell /
to The Crisis readers by allowing them to pay 50 cents down /
and 50 cents monthly for four months.
Do not delay; sit down immediately, clip this coupon /
CUT OUT AND
MAIL NOV.
/ The Douglass Pub.
Co., 509 No. 4th St.,
Harrisburg, Pa.
, .	. ,	,	-til.	.	' Enclosed find 50c., for
and send it to us with 50 cents, and a copy will be sent • which send me a copy of
“The Masterpieces of Negro
. Eloquence." I promise to pay
/ 50c. each month until $2.50 is
, paid. Title of the book to
f remain with you until the sum
/ of $2.50 is paid.
Name ---------------------------
Address__________________________
you by return mail.
The Douglass Publishing Company
HARRISBURG* PA.
Mention The Crisis
308
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
SCHOOL OF BEAUTY CULTURE AMP MAIM PRESSING
Kelsey's Hair Dressing, Hair Grower, Sealp Tonic and Face Lotion havo no equal. Price, 60c each.
Guaranteed under Food and Drug Act, June 30, 1906.
KELSEY’S
Telephone, Mornlngslde 8162
143 West 131st St.
NEW YORK ‘
Manicuring, Shampooing, Hair Dressing, Marcel War-
ing, Facial and Body Massage, Hair Making, Chiropody,
etc., scientifically taught. Unlimited practice in parlor
day and night. Pupils taught at home, 11 desired.
Diplomas. Special Summer Course, 37.60 up. Send for
booklet. Mme. A. Carter Kolsey, Gen’l Instr.; Dr. Samuel
A. Kelsey, Chiropodist, President and Gen’l Manager.
TEACHERS—The new, efficiency era calls for the
modern way of selecting teachers, through a live
agency that furnishes the connecting medium in a
business way, saves time of school officials, relieves
teachers of the embarrassment of job hunting and
covers the whole country.
We have had calls for teaohers from Alabama,
Arkansas, Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida,
Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland,
Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, Oklahoma,
Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas,
Virginia and West Virginia.
Our list of teachers covers even a wider territory.
THE MUTUAL TEACHERS’ AGENCY
1335 T Street, N. W.	Washington, D. O.
No. 24 Southern Buggy
Highest Grade
A V.riue Unequaled. Soldon Ji.oo
Profit Margin	FTOEQ
Factory to User
Write for prices
and other styles.
Send for catalogue.
C. R. PATTERSON
L SONS.
Greenfield, Ohio
Largest Negro Carriage concern In the United States.
Start a Mail Order Business and Make Money
You can operate in your own home during spare
time. The parcel post has opened up the doors of
opportunity to YOU. Others are making $20 to
$500 a week. Why can’t you f By our method
you can start with $5 and up. We offer you thirty
live, money-making mail order plans. You can
make 96 cents profit on every dollar order. We
fnrnish circulars, printed matter and place your
advertising at lowest rotes. Send 10 cents for
complete outfit. Do It to-day—Now!
MALL DEALERS WHOLESALE HOUSE
517 Dearborn 8treet	Chicago, HL
Buy Real Es±ate in “Twin Cities.”
You can donble your money by an investment of
city and suburban property in and around
Minneapolis. I have some good investments in new
towns in Western Canada. Communicate with
me.
B. MAXEY McDEW
802 Sykes Block	Minneapolis, Minn.
WANTED
500 Negro families (farmers preferred)
to settle on FREE Government Lands in
Chaves County, New Mexico. Blackdom is
a Negro colony. Fertile soil, ideal climate.
No “Jim Crow” Laws. For information
write
JAS. HAROLD COLEMAN
Blackdom -	-	-	-	— New Mexico
$25.00 PER WEEK
may be made in commissions by parties handling
“History of Negro Soldiers in Spanish-American
War" combined with “History of the Negro Race.’’
400 pages, 50 illustrations. Price $1.25 net.
Address:	E. A. JOHNSON
164 Nassau Street ----- New York
REGALIA
A Race Enterprise
Manufacturing Badges,
Banners and Supplies
for all Fraternal and
Church Societies. Cata-
logue upon request.
CENTRAL REGALIA 00.
Jos. L. Jones, Pres.
N. E. Cor. 8th and Plum St*.
Cincinnati, Ohio
COLORED) MEN
WANTED TO PREPARE AS
SLEEPING-CAR AND TRAIN
PORTERS.
No experience necessary. Posi-
tions pay $05 to $100 a month.
Steady work. New York road*.
Passes and uniforms furnished when
necessary. Write now.
I- RY. C. I., Dept. 19, Indianapolis, Ind.
A COLORED DOLLY FOR THE CHILD
Buy a beautiful colored doll, with lifelike features, long hair, jointed limbs and sleeping
eyes. The right plaything for your child. A big attraction at church fairs and bazaars.
Endorsed by leading clergymen and educators. Bend for catalog. Agents wanted. Novelty
souvenir* and favors.
E. M. S. NOVELTY COMPANY, Dept. A, JAMAICA, N. Y.
Mention The Crisis
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
309
MILES M. WEBB
Chicago’s Expert Photographer
/


f

J:
I specialize in every phase of artistic picture
making. Send me your photos for enlargements.
Prices reasonable. Satisfaction guaranteed. ’Phone
6688 Douglass.
WEBB STUDIO
3519 State Street	Chicago, HI.
Grand Supreme
Governor
The Loyal Knights and
Ladies of Malachites
is incorporated under the
laws of the District of Col-
umbia. Its object is tocom-
bine the Negroes of the
world for their mutual ad-
vancement along indus-
trial and commercial lines.
It also stands for the full
enjoy men t by the Negro of
his civil and political rights.
This movement is interna-
tional in its scope; wehave
lodges not only in the United States but in
Jamaica, B. W. I • Colon, Bocas del Toro, Pan-
ama (CanalZone) and Costa Rica. It is a dark
day for the Negro and he must come together.
Race movements have failed because our peo-
ple were told that by contributing thereto the
race only would be benefited, but no tangible
individaal benefits were offered. By our plan
the member pays 35c. per month in the Asso-
ciation and receives $4.00 per week sick ben-
efits and $100 at death. We not only look
after thp race but each individual member as
well. A big convention is soon to be held here.
We want a lodge in every village, hamlet and
town and a delegate to be sent to this conven-
tion. Organizers wanted everywhere. For
full particulars, write
KNIGHTS OF MALACHITES
1111 You St. N.W. Washington, D. C. A
AGENTS WANTED—Big seller. $3 to $5 per
day. Costs you from 10 to 20 cents; sella for
85 cents and up. Sample free for the asking.
G. A. AT.BURY & CO., P. O. Box 414, Bristol, Pa.
Beautiful Colored Doll Free
This Negro doll has light
brown color, long black
hair, jointed limbs, sleep-
ing eyes. For selling our
artistic Negro post cards
and other beautiful cards.
Large assortment; very
cheap. Agents and deal-
ers are making big
money handling them.
Terms free. Sample of
all post cards sent post-
paid for 15 cents.
J.	GRIFFITH
ART COMPANY
36-38 Beekman St.
New York
Price
$7.50
Up
“Made $28 in 1 Day
I Don't Know of Anything to Compote
With the Minute Picture Business"
So says J. A. McMillian, of
Nettie, W.Va., who has one of
our Champion Cameras. If you
want to make more money
than you’ve ever made before
—quicker and easier
—this is the business
for you. No matter
where you live or
what your occupa-
tion. you can coin mon-
ey right from the start.
Experience Not
Necessary
J.H Arnold.Rock Lake,
N.D., writes; “Received
oattlt O.EL Took It to a
little town, set it up for 3
hours and took In 02.35.” “Made $25 yesterday,**
writes Arthur Neely, Alvnrdo, Tex. “First day did
S30 in business,” says B. Bash a, Bell Island. New-
foundland. “.Made $50 Christmas’’—0. V. Lovett.
Fort Monde, Fla. “Had an excellent business of
$29.80.”—Vernard Baker. Holbrook, Neb.
Photo Postcards All the Rage cVrn
sorts. Schools, Factories, Depots, on Streets—any-
where, everywhere. Camera takes pictures size
2*6x316, 1Xx2<6 and one-inch buttons. Photograph
persona singly or In groups, honses, animals, autos,
beautiful scenes, oto. Make them on the spot, in
broad daylight. No gallery, no rent, no profit* to di-
vidstoith others. The
Champion Minute Picture Machlna
takes, develops and finishes perfect pictures in 30»eo-
onds: 200 an hour. No Dark Room. Nearly 85c profit
on each fl.00 you take in. Get into this lucrative
business at onoe. Travel If you like—see the world
and enjoy life. Quittoorking for others; be yoorown
boss. An opportunity like this does not ooour every
day. Take advantage of it and write for Free Book.
Testimonials, Liberal Offer, eta,
AMERICAN MINUTE PHOTO COMPANY
2214 Ogden Ave.,	Dept. A i 19	CHICAGO, TT.T.
WANTED—Colored carriage smiths,
woodworkers, trimmers and paint-
ers. Sober, experienced men only.
Address: THE CRISIS, 70 Fifth
Avenue, New York City.
Mention The Crisis
310
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
LEGAL DIRECTORY
Residence 2546 Michigan	Office Phone
Bell Phone E-2161	Home 58 Main
C.	H. CALLOWAY
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Notary Public
117 W. 6th Street	* Kansas City, Mo.
m.i.n),.... . / Central 104-W
Telephones. { Ma|n 61
HARRY E. DAVIS
Attorney-at-Law	Notary Public
1607 Williamson Building -	Cleveland, O.
Office L. D. Telephqne 8297 Market
Residence L. D. Telephone 5277-M Market
GEORGE A. DOUGLAS
Counselor-at-Law
Booms 613-614, Metropolitan Building
113 Market St., Cor. Washington, Newark, N. J.
General Practice	} Notary Public
WILLIAM R. MORRIS
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
1020 Metropolitan Life Building
Minneapolis -	-	-	-	-	-	- Minn.
BROWN S. SMITH
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law '
Offices:	Suite 610, Sykes Block
Minneapolis - '.......................Minn.
GEORGE W. MITCHELL
Attorney-at-Law
908 Walnut Street
Philadelphia - ' -	- J -'	-	-•	-	- Pa.
Tel. 2026 Fort Hill	Cable Address,' Epben
EDGAR P. BENJAMIN
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
84 School Street -	-	-	-	- Boston, Mass.
Telephone Connection
W. Ashbie Hawkins	George W. F. McMechen
HAWKINS & McMECHEN
Attorneys- at-Law
21 East Saratoga Street -	- Baltimore, Md.
Phones: Office, Bell 4059; Nevf 420/M
Residence, New 733-A
. THOS. E. GREENE, JR.
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Notary Public
Maloney Block -	Youngstown, Ohio
William H. Austin	Edmund O. Austin
Law Offices of
AUSTIN & AUSTIN
St. Paul Building, 220 Broadway, New York
Suite 7—H, I, J, K
Telephones: 7400, 5365,. 5366 Cortlandt
B.	F. BOOTH
Attorney-at-Law
67 N. Second Street
Memphis -	-	-	- ’ -	-	- ’	-	Tenn.
PERSONAL CARDS
Telephone 5277 Morningside
DR. GERTRUDE E. CURTIS
Surgeon Dentist
188 W. 135th Street -	New York City
Telephone Connection	,
R. W. FEARING
Electrician
Contracting, Repairing, Motors, Electric and
Gas Fixtures
Electrician recent Emancipation Exposition in
New York
86 Marion Street -	Brooklyn, N. Y.
Telephone Columbus 8935	Open All Night
RODNEY DADE & BROS.
Undertakers and Embalmers
Notary Public
Funeral Parlor and Chapel Free
Licensed Lady Embalmer	Prompt Service
286 West 63d Street -	New York City
Between Broadway and 8th Avenue
MME. FANNIE BELLE DE KNIGHT
•Dramatic and Dialect Reader. Engagements so-
licited. Students given special training in the
Delsarte Method. Instruction also given in Dialect.
English Grammar and Rhetoric.
Terms Reasonable.
Telephone Morningside 9045
Studio: 231 W. 134th St.	New York City
TANDY & FOSTER
Architects
1931 Broadway	^	New York
Telephone 5368 Columbus
------^---------------—---------------
H. HENRY HARRIS
Architect	’
Corner 8th and Princess Streets
Wilmington ------ N. C.
WILLIAM L. BELL
Architect
138% Auburn Avenue -	- Atlanta, Ga.
J. E. ORMES
ACCOUNTANT
Audits	Systems
Business information by mail. Open for
engagements July and August
Box 26, Wilberforce University
V	Wilberforce, O.	*_
Telephone 4214 Greeley
BRANIC’S EXPRESS
ANDREW J. BRANIO, Proprietor
Packing and Shipping—Goods Forwarded to All
Parts of the World
Orders by mail or ’phone receive prompt attention.
Trunks stored, 25c. per month.
459 Seventh Avenue	New York
Mention The Crisis
A Selected List of Books
R3 03 PRICE INCLUDES POSTAGE £0 £0
The Quest of the Silver Fleece. W. E. B. Du Bois......$1.50
House Behind the Cedars. Charles W. Chesnutt.......... 1.65
Hazel. Mary White Ovington............................ 1.08
Autobiography of an ex-Colored Man. Anonymous......... 1.40
The Testing Fire. Alexander Gorkey.................... 135
Lyrics of Lowly Life. Paul Laurence Dunbar............ 1.40
Marrow of Tradition. Charles W. Chesnutt.............. 1.65
The Sport of the Gods. Paul Laurence Dunbar........... 1.65
Norris Wright Cuney. Maud Cuney Hare.................. 130
A Narrative of the Negro.	Lelia Amos Pendleton....... 1.65
Souls of Black Folk. W.	E. B. Du Bois............... 135
Race Adjustment. Kelly Miller.........................2.15
History of the Negro. B. G. Brawley................... 135
Half a Man. Mary White Ovington....................... 1*12
Mind of Primitive Man. Franz Boas..................... 1.65
Aftermath of Slavery. William Sinclair................ 1.65
John Brown. W. E. B. Du Bois.......................... 1.45
Facts of Reconstruction.	John R. Lynch.............. 1.65
Story of the Negro. Booker T. Washington...............325
Flower o’ the Peach. Percival Gibbon.................. 1.45
The Colored Inventor. Henry E. Baker....................15
A Child's Story of Dunbar. Julia L. Henderson......... 25
A d dr ess
THE CRISIS
70 Fifth Avenue ----- New York City
CAPE MAY, N. J.
replete with0every6modern^imnrovAmim^1^0	°* .^e m08t beautiful seashore resort in the world;
patronage Orchestra dailv <L^I^e*»b\ifUiPer QtlVe ln. construction, appointments service, and refined
ladies and chUdSE. * fiJnfor bSHlet h°U8e9' tenm8* etC * on Remises. Special attention given to
iur DooKiet.	E. W. DALE, Owner.
Tk& Art of Printing
AS EXEMPLIFIED IN OUR WORK EMBODIES THE FOL-
LOWING POINTS OF MERIT:
( (a) Neat
1.	Stationery	■< (b) Attractive
( (c) Quality
T (<z) Polite
2.	Form	•< (b) Business
( (tf) Social
C (a) Artistic
3.	Workmanship -< (b) Correct
( (c) Prompt
We Print THE CRISIS
ROBERT N. WOOD, Printing and Engraving
202 EAST 99th STREET Telephone: Lenox 6667	NEW YORK
Mention The Crisis
ATLANTA NUMBER—EDITION, 37,000 COlOfts
THE CRISIS
ONE DOLLAR A YEAR
TEN CENTS A COPY
PURCHASING AN “M
Underwood
Typewriter
--— MEANS =====
A Satisfied Operator	A Pleased Employer
Distinctive Work	And a Short Day
Speed, Accuracy
Stability
Exclusive features, proved by winning every
International Contest, stamp the UNDERWOOD
as the leading typewriter in the world to-day
UNDERWOOD
“The Machine You Will Eventually Buy”
Mention Thh Crisis
THE CRISIS
A RECORD OF THE DARKER RACES
PUBLISHED BY THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE,. AT 70 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK CITY
Conducted by
W. E. BURGHARDT DU BOIS
AUGUSTUS GRANVILLE DELL, Business Manager
Contenta copyrighted, 1914. by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People
Contents for May, 1914
PICTURES
COVER. Colored Odd Fellows Building, Atlanta, Ga.
Page
SIDE VIEW OF ODD FELLOWS BUILDING................... 28
ARTICLES
ATLANTA STRIVING. By Benjamin Griffith Brawley........ 27
THE $500 HABIT........................................ 32
OUR LEGAL BUREAU. By Chapin Brinsmade............... 34
THE “CRISIS.” A Poem. By William Pickens.............. 36
THE NATIONAL BENEFIT ASSOCIATION...................... 37
DEPARTMENTS
ALONG THE COLOR LINE................................. 7
MEN OF THE MONTH...................................... 13
OPINION .............................................. 16
TWO LETTERS .........................................   22
EDITORIAL ............................-............. 23
SOME FRANK FACTS...................................... 40
THE BURDEN............................................ 42
TEN CENTS A COPY; ONE DOLLAR A YEAR
FOREIGN SUBSCRIPTIONS TWENTY-FIVE CENTS EXTRA
RENEWALS:	When a subscription blank is attached to this page a renewal of your
subscription is desired. The date of the expiration of your subscription will be found on the
wrapPe£HANGE OF ADDRESS: The address of a subscriber can be changed as often as desired.
In ordering a change of address, both the old and the new address must be given. Two weeks’
n° CC MANUSCRIPTS and drawings relating to colored people are desired. They must be accom-
panied by return postage. If found unavailable they will be returned.
Entered as Second-class Matter in the Post Office at New York, N. Y.
4
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
Atlanta University
la beautifully located in the. Oity of Atlanta, Ga.
The couraes of study include High School, Nor-
mal School and College, with manual training
and domestic science. Among the teachers are
graduates of Yale, Harvard, Dartmouth and
Wellesley. Forty-four years of successful work
have been completed. Students come from all
parts of the South. Graduates are almost
universally successful.
For further information address
President EDWARD T. WARE
ATLANTA, GA.
Knoxville Colle&je
Beautiful Situation. Healthful Location.
The Best Moral and Spiritual Environment.
A Splendid Intellectual Atmosphere.
Noted for Honest and Thorough Work.
Offers full courses in the following departments:
College, Normal, High School, Grammar School and
Industrial.
Good water, steam heat, electric lights, good
drainage. Expenses very reasonable.
Opportunity for Self-help.
Fall Term Begins September, 1914.
For information address
President R. W. McGRANAHAN
KNOXVILLE, TENN.
The fifteenth annual session of the State
Summer School for Colored Teachers of
both sexes at the
Agricultural and
^Meckanical College
GREENSBORO. N. C.
will begin June 29, 1914, and continue five
weeks.
In addition to the regular work, an attractive
lecture course has been arranged, in which
will appear some of the most distinguished
white and colored educators in the country.
Board and lodging for the entire session,
$12; tuition 25 cents per subject, unless
other arrangements have been made.
Limited accommodations. Send $1 and have
room reserved in advance.
For further information write at once to
LINCOLN INSTITUTE
Jefferson City, Missouri
Founded by the Negro soldiers of
the 64th and 65th Regiments. Sup-
ported by the State of Missouri.
One of the best-equipped schools
in the country for the education of
.Negro boys and girls. Normal,
Collegiate, Agricultural and Indus-
trial Courses. Normal diplomas
carrying with them the degree B. Pd.
are life certificates to teach in the
public schools of Missouri. The
degree A. B. 'conferred upon those
who complete the collegiate course.
Four teachers of Music: Voice Cul-
ture, Piano, Violin, Band and
Orchestra Practice. Elocution,
Athletics, Drawing and Art.
Board $9.50 a month. Tuition $3.00 the
year to Missouri students. All others pay
$13.00 a year. Catalog free.
B. F. ALLEN, A. M., LL. D.
President.
Morehouse College
(Formerly Atlanta Baptist College)
ATLANTA, GA.
College, Academy, Divinity School
An institution famous within recent years
for its emphasis on all sides of manly
development—the only institution in the far
South devoted solely to the education of
Negro young men.
Graduates given high ranking by
greatest Northern universities. Debating,
Y. M. C. A., athletics, all live features.
For information address
JOHN HOPE, President.
ST. MARY’S SCHOOL
An Episcopal boarding and day school
for girls, under the direction of the Sisters
of St. Mary. Address:
THE SISTER-IN-CHARGE
611 N. 43d St.	W. Philadelphia, Pa.
Fisk University
NASHVILLE, TENN.
Founded 1866	C. W. Morrow, Dean
Thorough Literary, Scientific, Educa-
tional and Social Science Courses. Pioneer
in Negro music. Special study in Negro
history.
Ideal and sanitary buildings and grounds.
Well-equipped Science building.
Christian home life.
High standards of independent manhood
and womanhood.
JAMES B. DUDLEY. President, or
D.	J. JORDAN, Director.
A.	M. College, Greensboro, N. C.
Mention Tut Crisis
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
5
iThe National Religious Training School
“I cordially commend the school’s interest and needs to all who believe
in the Negro race and in our obligation to help promote its intellectual,
moral and religious uplift."
—Rev. Dr. Charles H. Parkhurst, New York City.
IT IS MORE THAN A MERE SCHOOL
IT IS A COMMUNITY OF SERVICE AND UPLIFT
Its influence is destined to be felt in all sections of the country in improved
Negro community life wherever our trained workers locate.
Settlement workers, missionaries for home and foreign, mission fields,
Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A. secretaries and district nurses receive a compre-
hensive grasp of their studies under a Wellesley graduate and experienced
co-workers and actual every-day practice through the school’s SOCIAL
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
We aim also to create a better qualified ministry.
Industrial training, advanced literary branches, business school.
Thirty-two acres; ten modern buildings; • healthful location.
We can accommodate a few more earnest, ambitious students.
Communities requiring social workers should write us.
For catalog and detailed information address:
PRESIDENT JAMES E. SHEPARD
National Religious Training School - --	-- --	-- - Durham, N. C.
The school has no endowment fund and must raise a yearly maintenance
fund of $15,OCX) for running expenses. Won’t you help us this year?
©Ije	©raining is>rijnnl far Otatrfpra
GHEYNEY, PENNSYLVANIA
Under the management of the Society of Friends. Beautifully
located, healthful, well appointed, and within easy reach of a great
variety of educational institutions, public and private, extending from
West Chester to Philadelphia; representing a wide range of educa-
tional problems and practice.
This school offers to young colored men and women who have a
reasonable secondary school preparation, and who earnestly desire
to become teachers, carefully graded- courses in academic work,
domestic science, domestic art, manual crafts and agriculture. For
teachers of experience and intending teachers it offers also a six
weeks* summer-school course, extending from July 1 to August 12.
Tuition is free. Board, lodging, heat, light and laundry privileges
are offered for nine months for $100. The charge for the same
during the summer-school course is $15. Write for particulars to
LESLIE PINCKNEY HILL, Principal
Mention The Crisis
6
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
OF INTEREST TO VOCAL STUDENTS
TONE-PLACING AND
VOICE- DEVELOPMENT
Points explained, viz.: Breath
in Singing. Trying the Voice, the
Soprano, the Mezzo-Soprano, the
Contralto, Tenor Leggiero or High
Tenor, the Baritone, the Bass,
Parts of the Vocal Apparatus, the
Mouth, the Tongue, Position When
Practising. Position When Singing,
How to Practice, Good Rules for
Singing.
Comment from the world-renowned conductor of
the Paulist Choir of Chicago, 111., whoso choir has
just received the first prize awarded at the Sing-
ing Contest held in Paris on May 25, 1912:
"Dear Mr. Tinsley:
*'I take groat pleasure in commending your very useful and
succinctly written book on ‘Tons-Plaolng and Volos-Develop-
ment.’ Tour own appreciation of the psychology of singing
and the fundamental principles of the art you have cleverly
reduced to a almplo system.	Cordially youre.
"Father WILLIAM J. FINIS’, C. 8. P..
Director Paulist Choristers of Chicago."
From "Musical Courier." N. Y.: "A very practical little
book is ‘Tone-Placing and Voloe-Development.’ by Pwiro T.
Tinsley. It contains some very excellent material and vocal
exercises, and should be In the hands of all vocal students."
From "Music News." Chicago. 111.: "Accordingly his
‘Practical Method of Singing’ Is a most concise and practical
little manual, containing many valuable vocal exercises. It
cannot fall to be helpful to all ambitious vocal students."'
HELPED HIM GREATLY
“Since I practised your exercises of ‘Tone-Placing
and Voice-Development’ my voice is more resonant
than it has been for years. It seems to me that I
am getting a new voice.” Prof. John T. Layton.
Director Ooleridge-Taylor Musical 8ociety, 1722 10th
St., N. W., Washington, D. 0.
PRICE $1.00
Address the publisher: Pedro T. Tinsley, 61-18
Drexel Ave., Chicago, 111.; or Clayton F. Summy,
64 E. Van Buren St., or Lyon & Healy, Adams
and Wabash Ave., Chicago, Til.
This
Beautiful
20 Inches Wldo
19 Inches Long
Only fl.45
Sfnv-Tyclo Willow Plumes
23in. wido22 in. long 5.90 2Gin.widc25 in. long 7.90
25in. wide 21 in. long 6.90 20 in. wide 27 in. long 9.90
30 in. wide 27 in. long $11.90__________
Wo have established a world-
wide reputation on our No.401 mag-
nificent ID-inch French Curl l’lumo.
mado of rich, glossy, best malo
stock, with wido. brood fibres nnu
heavy French head. $5.00
lilacrc. whito and colon **^__
French Curl Plumes
17	in., Spceinl, $1.95
18	“	*‘	2.48
19	“ Ex.wide, 5.00
20	"	" 7.50
22 “	“ 10.00
Send 25c to cover express charges and wo will ship
any of abovo C.O.D. for free examination. Or. send
full purchase prico and we will send all charges pre-
paid. Money promptly refunded if for any rcuson you
are not satisfied.	....
Send for f roo catalog of French or Willow
Ostrich Bands and Aigrettes, and get a complete $.5
Course in Millinery, Dyeing, Cleaning, Curling, etc.
SOUTH AFRICAN IMPORTING CO.
1841 Wabash Ave. Dept. 150 CHICAGO
Agents Are Making $10.00 Per Day
and more selling our famous Negro picture, “A
Joyful Welcome Into Heaven.” the finest painting
ever produced with the Negro us n subject. Semi-
religious. Sells at sight. Send 15 cents in stamps
or coin for 50-cent snmple and agent's terms.
THE DOUGLAS SPECIALTIES COMPANY
3648 Vernon Ave.	Dept. K	Chicago, III.
RELIABLE, LIVE,
RESPONSIBLE MEN
who can sell real estate can MAKE MORE
than $200 PER MONTH acting as
AGENTS for the sale of our properties in
MUSKOGEE and TAFT, OKLAHOMA.
The real coming country where there are
opportunities and openings for all. Write
us to-day, giving your age and experience,
and we will offer you a FINE PROPOSI-
TION WHICH WILL MAKE YOU
MONEY. Address
REEVES REALTY CO.
Department C
217 Flynn-Ames Bldg. Muskogee, Okla.
Co (axed. tiejctiia sOanfod cO.exijvOfiexc la Auppfjj
ifte (ucj demand .fox otw /xccjJx cjxade Callimj
Co/uIa Yalcai Afiji c A and At^cA fax fail ted at
nc»i (fern cn, \0.itfi ox v?il(iaut addxcAa, 100 jot 50
CCfl la ox 50 fax 25 cenf-A Ouifd free J?ax<je
camimaaian. 6\vcf«ai\V lex/xifaxij Cl If o ad ox A
fiff’ed pxampflii COailo fox AampfoA and texma
auAe u| 'C’ftaW, liny, «?niIiariajniliA, Aid
DO YOU ADVERTISE?
If you want to bring your business to the
attention of 150,000 discriminating readers
advertise in THE CRISIS. Advertising
rate cards will be sent on application.
The Crisis
70 Fifth Avenue -	- New York
Mention Tire Crisis
THE CRISIS
V«L 8—No. 1	MAY. 1914	WLolc No. 43
MUSIC ANT) AST.
£*OLEREDGE - TAYLOR'S “Eleanore"
was one of the interesting songs pre-
sented by Gall Gardner at a matinee musicale
given at Claridge’s Hotel. London, early in
February.
*1 Victor Herbertrs four-part arrangement
of J. Rosamond Johnson's dialect song.
“Since You Went Away,” which is being
used by the choral classes of colleges in the
South, is both effective and beautiful.
Mr. J. Rosamond Johnson, song writer
and pianist, has returned from England,
where he appeared lately in a new musical
comedy act at the London Pavilion. Mr.
Johnson’s first appearance since his return
was at the New Standard Theatre. Phila-
delphia, Pa., during the week of March 16.
He was assisted by Mr. Thomas Brown.
^ Mr. Charles A. Marshall, baritone, is
appearing on the normal school entertaining
list of artists at Philadelphia. Pa. Mr.
Marshall, assisted by Miss Elizabeth Benson,
pianist, sang on March 14 at the meeting
of the Alumni Association of the high school
for girls.
<1 A series of lecture recitals on Afro-
American folk songs was given in March
at the Little Theatre, Chicago. 111., by Mrs.
Collingwood Tucker, an American singer.
The Chicago Inter-Ocean notes that: “Her
material is exceedingly interesting from the
musical point of view.”
<J Of Henry Hadley's new symphony.
“North, East, South and West,” which was
a conspicuous feature on the program of
the ninth concert by the. Minneapolis
Symphony Orchestra, Musical America
says:	“In a wealth of thematic material
there was brought out much that was familiar
to the American ear, such as Negro ragtime
rhythms and Indian themes. There were
many lovely passages and the work was
accepted as true to its comprehensive title
and national birthright.” The symphony
was also a feature of the Kansas City
orchestral concert in February, of which the
Kansas City Journal stated: “The wonder-
ful ‘South’ in particular aroused the en-
thusiasm of the audience."
Madam Anita Patti Brown, of Chicago,
111.,	assisted by Mrs. Mary L. Smith,
accompanist and reader, gave a well-
executed program at the A. M. E. Zion
Church, Birmingham. Ala., on March 9. An
additional feature of interest on the program
was Mrs. Smith’s travel talk of the British
West Indies.
<J On February 17 Roland W. Hayes,
tenor, and Charles J. Harris, pianist, gave
a joint recital at the State A. and M. Col-
lege of South Carolina, at Orangeburg.
The musical department of the college is
under the directorship of C. Delpha Boger.
a graduate of the teachers* class of the
Chicago Musical College.
<] On the evening of February 24.
at Minneapolis, Minn., the Minneapolis
Musicians and Music Lovers gave their
fourth annual banquet. The program,
under the direction of the chairman, Willard
8
THE CRISIS
Patten, comprised witty burlesques, serious
readings and clever skits in .the form of light
opera. An exceptionally clever burlesque
was that of “Low Jinks”—the king com-
mands his aide to bring in the shades of ten
famous composers and Shakespeare. The
interlocutor questions the shades of Pytha-
goras, Palestrina, Bach, Handel, Haydn,
Mozart, Beethoven, Schubert, Liszt, Wagner
and Coleridge-Taylor regarding some of
their alleged feats which bring out impor-
tant facts in musical history. A disturb-
ance is caused by a well-known local singer
who insists on drawing the color line against
Coleridge-Taylor until the shade of
Hiawatha stops the quarrel.
Announcement has Deen made of plans
to erect a theatre, with seating capacity of
1,000,	for the use of colored people of Nor-
folk, Va. The theatre is to cost $50,000
and will be used for vaudeville and moving-
picture attractions.
<3 Mrs. Maud Cuney Hare and Mr. W. R.
Richardson are engaged in joint recitals
and lecture recitals at colleges and in the
principal cities of the Southwest. *
*3 The second concert of the Schola Can-
torilm, held at Carnegie Hall, under the
direction of Mr. Kurt Schindler, on April 1,
was devoted to Russian, Negro and British
folk songs. Coleridge-Taylor’s “Slave -
Singing at Midnight” was presented, and
Mr. Burleigh arranged the two Negro
spirituals, “Deep River” and “Dig My
Grave,” for four-part singing, especially for
the Schola Cantorum.
George W. Castone, a colored waiter in
St. Paul, Minn., is attracting attention to
his painting, which he does in spare time.
While he does' some creditable work in water
colors, his oil paintings are his best efforts.
Castone has had only three or four lessons
and at present is unable to study further
because of -lack of means.
organized to work in interest of the city-
beautiful idea among colored people; the
Charleston (W. Va.) Women’s Improve-
ment League has contributed $318 for the
support of a bed in the general hospital;
colored women of Leavenworth, Kan., have
organized a civic-improvement league and
the colored W. C. T. U. in Indianapolis,
Ind.,* is assisting by contributions and in
other ways to abolish saloons in the vicinity
of schools.
Work is proceeding on the public library
in Savannah, Ga., fbr colored people, made
possible by a gift of $12,000 from Carnegie.
The city will appropriate $1,200 a year for
the maintenance of the library.
•3 Colored men and women of Nashville,
Tenn., have been enthusiastically carrying
on a campaign, under the direction of the
international secretary, Mr. J. E. Moor-
land, for $25,000 to be used for a Young
Men’s Christian Association. The Nashville
Globe, a colored weekly, was published daily
for the ten days of the campaign in the
interest of the movement. The final reports
show that $33,160.30 was raised.
•3 A great deal of interest has been shown
during the past season in athletics among
colored people. James Burwell,' a colored
student of the University of Pittsburgh,
ran a close second to Carroll, of Indiana State
Normal School, at a recent meet in which
Carroll equaled the indoor record for the
60-yard dash. In the same meet Burrell
won the 220-yard dash, running in excellent
form. At the sixth annual regimental meet,
held in the South Armory, Boston, Mass.,
John A. Shelburne, of the English High
School, broke the record in the semi-final
heat of the 60-yard dash, making it in 6 4-5
seconds, 1-5 second less than the record, and
won in the final heat. Edward Niles, a
colored senior in the English High, won the
1,000-yard dash.
SOCIAL UPLIFT.
OLORED women in different sections
^ of the country are doing much for
social uplift. In Baltimore women raised
more than $10,000 for a Young Women’s
Christian Association; at a recent meeting
of the City Federation of Women’s Clubs
in Birmingham, Ala., $750 was raised to
assist in paying a debt on the old folks’
home; in the same place 300 women have
<3 In order to instruct and secure the interest
of the white people of Asheville, N. C., in
colored schools, an educational fair, exhibit-
ing the work of ten county and city schools,
was recently held in that place. The fan-
closed with a mass meeting in the interest
of the work.
<3 A resolution has been adopted by the
bath commission of Baltimore providing for
more public baths and laundry facilities for
colored people.
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
9
*3 It is reported that a colored baby won the
first prize in the “perfect baby” show held
in New York City in which 700 babies were
entered.
*3 An aid and social club in Algiers, La.,
composed of.235 young colored men, does
much charitable work.
*3 The Colored Taxpayers' Protective Asso-
ciation, of Long Island, N. Y., has opened
a spacious clubhouse in Jamaica.
*3 J. H. Cobb, a salesman for the St. Louis
(Mo.) Seed Company, and many other em-
ployees, when pinioned under a wall which
collapsed and took down a part of the seed
building, were rescued with great difficulty
by a Negro whose name is not known.
A system of examination of the employees
in the dining car has been installed on the
Cotton Belt Railroad route. No one of the
sixty already examined have had a communi-
cable disease.
<3 There is a large demand for day nurs-
eries for colored children in New York be-
cause in most of the white nurseries, and
particularly in those situated in colored
neighborhoods, Negroes are not provided for.
At present there are only four nurseries in
Manhattan and Brooklyn conducted for
colored children. Miss H. T. Emerson, of
the West End Workers’ Association, is
planning a social center for Negroes in
Harlem, New York City. A settlement
house will be conducted, with a day and
night nursery attached.
EDUCATION.
* | * HE supervisor of manual training in
A the colored schools of Nashville, Tenn.,
has reported that 13S boys attending one of
the manual-training centers earn $192.25
weekly by working before and after school
hours.
<3 Robert Hardon, a colored student of the
Saginaw (Mich.) high school, was the winner
in the preliminary contest for the Michigan
Interscholastic Oratorical Association. There
were two other students contesting for a
place in the contest.
<3 Through the efforts of the educational
committee of the Y. M. C. A. of North
Carolina University, a night school for
colored people was conducted % in Raleigh
during the past winter. The school board
and also many colored citizens contributed to
the work. Three colored teachers were
employed and there was an average attend-
ance of ninety-two each night.
<3 Of the 17,000 persons composing the
population of Ironton, O., 1,500 are colored
people, and colored children rank first in
four of the grades of the schools. Miss
Garnett Wilson, a colored student taking a
commercial course, received the Remington
pennant for writing the greatest number of
perfect words in a minute.
<J The John Morrow Normal and Industrial
College was opened in San Antonio on March
I.	The buildings already on the thirteen-
acre plot, purchased for this purpose, will
be used until new buildings can be erected.
<3 Miss Teresa G. Lew graduated from the
classical course of the Lowell (Mass.) high
school two years ago at the head of a class
of 282. . She was the winner of a Carney
medal for excellence • of character and
scholarship, and received honorary mention
for punctuality in attendance. Miss Lew
is now a member of the senior class of the
Lowell normal school and is there, as she
was in the high school, a member of the
glee club.
<3 Colored people of Trenton, N. J., have
already pledged $21,000 of the desired
$50,000 for the erection of a girls’ dormitory
at Livingston College, Salisbury, N. C.
*3 Eleven students and three alumnae of the
University of Michigan have organized a
Delta chapter of the Kappa Alpha Nu, a
Negro men’s college fraternity.
<3 The Sisters of the Blessed Sacrament, of
Cornell, Bucks County, Pa., have filed
plans for a four-story school for Negro
children and dwelling for nuns in the Harlem
section of New York City.
<3 The regular session of the summer school,
at Hampton Institute, Hampton, Va., will
be conducted by some of the members of
the regular staff and other well-known
teachers from various parts of the country.
Twenty-five courses will be offered.
<3 It is said that a wealthy white woman of
Cincinnati, becoming interested in Negroes
through the efforts of her colored laundress,
has bequeathed a large sum to Negro educa-
tion, aud it is expected that the Industrial
School for Negro Youth will be opened next
fall at Wyoming, O., -with W. L. Ricks as
president.
10
THE CRISIS
The New Jersey State board of education
has adopted a resolution providing for the
selection of two students to be recipients of
a scholarship at the Manual Training and
Industrial School for Colored Youth at*
Bordentown.
The Philadelphia Round Table for the
Welfare of Colored Persons is making plans
for a vocational school for boys between the
ages of 10 and 16 years.
ECONOMICS.
A MODEL silk mill of Kingston, N. C.,
is being successfully operated by
colored people, although before it went into
the hands of the colored management it met
with little success. The manager of the mill,
a colored minister, is a silk expert.
*3 The Chicago College of Hair Culture is
supposed to be the largest concern of its
kind established. The establishment con-
tains beauty parlors, lecture, dining and rest
rooms, a'shipping department and a printing
office.
The colored business block of Durham,
N.	C., was almost entirely destroyed by a
large fire recently. A colored bank and a
colored newspaper plant were entirely de-
stroyed and two of the buildings in the
block owned by the North Carolina Mutual
and Provident Association went down. It
seems that most of the loss is covered by
insurance.
<3 Dr.* Nelson, a colored pharmacist, has
just opened a first-class drug store in St.
Paul, Minn. •
<3 Negroes in Toledo, 0., have incorporated
the Star Building and Loan Association
under the laws of the State of Ohio; its
officers are bonded and business began on
April 1.
PERSONAL.
-V/IRS. MARY CATHERINE WINDSOR
is dead. For the past six years,
since the death of her husband, she had lived
in Wilberforce with her sister, and it was
there that she died. During the Civil War
she was going with her brother to New
Orleans on a boat which later became a war
transport for the Union army. As the boat
was about to w6igh anchor cautiously in the
Mississippi River late one afternoon, she
discovered rebel forces crawling underbrush
and about to open fire. She gave the alarm
and the enemy was put to rout. Soon after-
ward she was made a spy and rendered
valuable aid to the Union forces.
<3 C. H. Watson, a colored man, has been
appointed notary public for the county of
Mecklenburg, N. C.
MEETINGS.
T N March girls representing the Young
Women’s Christian Association in many
of the schools of Mississippi, Tennessee and
Alabama met with Miss Josephine V. Pinyon,
the international students’ secretary, in a
three-day conference at Jackson College,
Jackson, Miss. There were Several interest-
ing speakers and a great deal of interest
was shown in the work by the citizens of
Jackson.
•I Founder’s day and the semi-centennial.
of Wilberforce University, Wilberforce, 0.,
was celebrated on February 25.
<3 The Empire State Federation of Women’s
Clubs will hold its sixth annual meeting in
Brooklyn during the early part of July.
The membership of the federation is about
4,000.
<3 A national convention of colored men was
Called in Washington, D. C., on February
25, to protest against political discrimination.
<3 Farmers’ conferences have been held in
Utica Institute, Miss., and in the Bartlett
Agricultural and Industrial School in Dal-
ton, Mo., recently.,
<3 On April 24 a conference of societies
and individuals interested in sanitary living
among colored people was held in New
Orleans under the direction of the State
board of health.
<3 The third annual meeting of the Middle
Tennessee Teachers’ Association convened in
Nashville on April 9.
<3 Colored Knights of Pythias of the State
of Virginia and the Court of Calanthe cele-
brated their thirty-fourth anniversary in
Richmond on March 29.
<3 Mrs. Mary Church Terrell spoke of the
discrimination practised against the Negro
North as well as South in a lecture at Boston
on March 8.
<3 Many colored' educational and religious
leaders have called a Negro Christian student
convention to meet at Clark University and.
Gammon Theological Seminary in Atlanta,
Ga., from May 14 to 18.
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
11
POLITICAL.
rTT HE Senate committee has reported
A favorably on the nomination of Judge
Terrell.
Senator Williams, of Mississippi, offered
an amendment restricting woman suffrage
to white women, which was defeated by 44
votes to 21.
Q The committee on the District of Columbia
has reported favorably to the House on the
bill preventing intermarriage of white and
colored races.
The committee on Federal relations of the
Massachusetts legislature has reported favor-
ably on the resolution protesting against
segregation in the Federal departments at
Washington.
^ It is said that the United States Treasury
officials are looking about for a white suc-
cessor to Charles A. Cottrill, collector of
internal revenue for the territory of Hawaii,
as, to quote a Hawaiian paper: “Senator
Vardaman and other Southerners have de-
clared open war on all Negro appointees and
there is no disposition manifested by the
President and his advisers to encounter their
opposition in the matter of confirmation.”
COURTS.
rTTHE following verdicts have been
A awarded colored men and women suing
for damages recently: $25,000 to Richard
Thorne, of Seattle, Wash., who was para-
lyzed by being crushed in an elevator pit;
$15,000 to Mrs. E. F. Sport, who was thrown
from a Boston elevated train and severely
injured; $1,693 to Mrs. Maggie Robinson,
of Chicago, for injuries received when
thrown from a street car two years ago;
$2,000 to George T. Williams, a former
Pullman porter, for malicious prosecution
by the Pullman Company; $9,000 for the
death of Albert Foster, resulting from an
accident which occurred on the steamship
“Amatonga,” at the Jersey City Central
Railroad docks in 1909. The case was taken
up by attorney A. C. Cowan, and since his
death has been finished by Mrs. Cowan, who
is also a lawyer.
The settlement of two cases which came
up recently in the Topeka (Kan.) courts
are striking contrasts. A white man, Mark
Williams, was sentenced to a few months in
the State reformatory, on direct evidence,
for the murder of a colored man. A colored
man, Bryant, was given life imprisonment
in the penitentiary, on circumstantial evi-
dence, for the murder of a white man. The
two convicted men are considered equally
bad characters.
<3 Indictments were returned in the circuit
court of Hopkinsville, Ky., against the
Louisville and Nashville, Illinois Central
and Tennessee Central Railroads, for un-
equal accommodations for white and colored
passengers. Under the State separate-coach
law such discrimination is a misdemeanor, to
be punished by a fine of not less than $500
and not more than $1,500 for each offense.
The return of the indictments was secured
by two colored lawyers, a white newspaper
editor and a white ex-judge.
FOREIGN.
A/T R. A. A. KENNEDY, a colored man,
has been appointed by the governor
inspector in the public schools of Jamaica.
<3 Britons are fearing that serious trouble
in Abyssinia will result from the death of
Emperor Menelik. Bandit tribes are
threatening the central government and war
over succession to the throne is feared.
Prince Lidj Yassu is said to be preparing
to crown himself emperor.
<J Sir Frederick Lugard was appointed
governor of the United Nigeria at the begin-
ning of the year. This section of the country
has a population of 17,000,000 and is a
consolidation of Lagos, Southern and
Northern Nigeria and the Niger coast
protectorate.
<3 Dr. Schnee, the governor of German East
Africa, has sent in a brief defending slavery
for the colonies, so that German planters
may be sure of laborers. The population is
said to be decreasing alarmingly under the
slave regime.
<3 A man was hanged in Bermuda recently
and this was the first hanging in' thirty-
three years. The colony is singularly free
from crime; there are scarcely more than a
score of cases yearly and a speedy trial is
always given. Bermuda has a population
of 20,000, two-thirds of which is -colored.
An African trading company—the African
Union Company—has been incorporated
under the laws of the State of New York
for the purpose of shipping mahogany to
American, English and German markets.
12
THE CRISIS
•J The Japanese and Chinese people in Van-
couver, B. C.,' are making great progress
economically. The Japanese have just
opened a $100,000 four-story building. The
main floor is occupied by a Japanese bank.
•J Dr. J. E. Barnes, recently minister of
public works in Liberia, is in this country
for the purpose of raising $250,000 for a
school. He says that the educational facili-
ties in Liberia are very poor.
THE GHETTO.
DISTURBANCE in a London club
recently resulted from objections
made by American women to the presence of
Negroes in the club. The women threw
glasses and bottles around and had to be
put out of the club.
Q Residents of a certain block in St. Louis
are protesting and attempting to compel
colored families to move out of the neighbor-
hood. The house is owned by B. F. Yoakum,
who occupies one part of it and rents the
other to Arthur Freeman, principal of the
Wheatley School for Negroes. The owner
refuses to sell below a price which the white
neighbors say is too high.
The home of Prof. W. C. Chance, presi-
dent of Parmele Industrial Institute, at
Parmele, N. C., was dynamited. He escaped
injury, but considerable damage was done
to the house. The offenders are not known.
<J After much difficulty and opposition
from white residents, Baton Rouge, La., was
finally decided upon for the location of
Southern University, formerly situated in
New Orleans. Thirty-six white men pro-
tested to the governor and requested that
the board rescind its action. The governor
refused to allow this, however, stating* that
the government appropriations were already
in jeopardy because of the delay in choosing
a site for the school.
Q A well-known colored citizen of Sacra-
mento, Cal., Mr. B. A. Johnson, when
solicited to aid in the erection of a Y. M.
C.	A. building, contributed $25. Later his
grandson attempted to join the association
and was informed that the Negro race would
not be admitted to membership. This
ruling has been indorsed by the superior
officers of the association.
$25,000 has been appropriated by the
municipal authorities of Lexington, Ky., for
a public park for colored people.
<1 Miss Madeline Davis, a young colored
wom$n of Philadelphia, went into a moving-,
picture theatre and refused to sit in the rear
where the usher ordered her. He attempted
to force her into a rear seat, although there
were vacant seats in front and the prices
were all the same, and when she resisted she
was arrested. The next morning she was dis-
missed by the magistrate who ruled that
managers had no right to say where patrons
would sit in unreserved sections. A case
against the management for assault and
battery is being prepared.
<1 The colored maids who were formerly
employed at diplomatic White House recep-
tions have been replaced by white girls.
Trinity Vestry, in New York City, is
making arrangements to provide a separate
place of worship for the colored members.
At present all worship at the same place.
CRIME.
' I rHE following Negroes have been
lynched since the last report:
At Alpine, Tex., a man giving the name
Morgan was riddled with bullets by a posse
for assault upon a sheriff with intent to
kill. At Fayette, Mo., Dallas Shields was
lynched by a mob of 250 in the court-
house yard, charged with the murder of a
constable. Near Franklin, Tex., William
Williams, charged with wounding a white
man, was lynched by neighbors of the
wounded man; the white man is not thought
to be fatally wounded. At Clinton, Ala.,
Charles Young was lynched on the charge
of assaulting a white woman. At Inverness,
Miss., an unidentified man, charged with
murdering Sam Lusco, an Italian, was
lynched. At Wagoner, Okla., Marie Scott,
charged with the murder of a white man,
was lynched. At Hastings, Col., James
Johnson was killed by a posse for wound-
ing a white officer.
•J Charles Fisher, a Negro youth, accused of
kissing a white girl, was badly mutilated by
a mob of white ruffians. His ears were cut
off and his lips slit. It is said that he will
live.
Ora. Griffin, a colored girl, was shot and
seriously wounded by Charles Kullock, a
white man, at Cincinnati, O.
AN ADMINISTRATOR.
JOHN HOPE was born in Augusta, Ga.,
June 2, 1868. He was a member of a
large family, and in his earlier years was
forced to exemplify the principle of self-
help. Inspired to seek the best educational
opportunities, however, he went to New
England for a season of study. He finished
the course at Worcester Academy in 1890,
and in 1894 was graduated from Brown,
with the distinction of being class orator.
Returning to the South, Mr. Hope taught
at Roger Williams University until 1898,
when he was called to Atlanta Baptist Col-
lege, now Morehouse College, the institution
with which his name has become inseparably
connected. Until 1906 he served as profes-
sor of Latin and Greek; since that time he
HON. HUNKY A. RUCKER.
has been president. Mr. Hope’s most signal
achievement as president of Morehouse has
been to bring the college into close touch
with the life of Ailania. He himself is
identified with almost every movement in
the city for the advancement of the Negro;
and educators throughout the country point
with pride to his successful administration
as a distinct achievement of the race in the
handling of important enterprises.
A FEDERAL OFFICEHOLDER.
T-TENRY A. RUCKER was born in Wash-
**" ington, Ga., November 14, 1852. His
early education was very irregular, as he
was dependent very largely on his own efforts
for support. He spent some time in the
public schools of Atlanta, however, and
PRESIDENT JOHN HOPE.
14
THE CRISIS
managed to make his way through the
sophomore year at Atlanta University. He
soon became interested in politics and in
civic betterment. He was especially active
in Atlanta in 1890, when the municipal
offices of the city were confused, when taxes
were exorbitant, and when an effort was
being made to nominate a reform ticket.
Mr. Rucker led in the introduction of a
measure for the reduction of the rate of
taxation from one and one-half to one and
one-fourth per cent.; and this change has
worked greatly for the advancement of the
city’s credit. Mr. Rucker has several times
been a delegate to
national Republican
conventions. At the
St. Louis convention
of 1896, as a dele-
gate-at-large from
the State of Georgia,
he introduced a reso-
1 u t i o n condemning
lynching and mob
violence, which be-
came a plank in the
platform on which
McKinley was elected.
After the inaugura-
te n of President
McKinley, Mr. Rucker
was appointed col-
lector of internal
revenue for the State
of Georgia. He
served under three
different Presidents
for a total of thirteen
years, and his office
was always rated Al.
He is now engaged in
handling real estate.
modern sanitary establishments, one of these
places being one of the finest shops in the
world, being located on Peachtree Street, in
the heart of the business district of Atlanta.
Mr. Herndon also owns and rents a hundred
different houses. He is Atlanta’s leading
business man of the race. He is a stock-
holder in the Southview Cemetery, the
Atlanta Loan and Trust Co., the Gate City
Drug Store, the savings bank, the Majestic
Theatre, in most of which enterprises he is
the majority holder; he is the founder and
president of the Atlanta Mutual Insurance
Association, the treasurer of the Standard
Life Insurance Co., a
trustee of the First
Congregatio nal
Church, a trustee of
the Leonard Street
Orphanage and a
member of the Mon-
day Club. Mr.
Herndon’s magnifi-
cent $40,000 r e s i -
deuce is one of the
most noteworthy ob-
jects in Atlanta.
W
ME. ALONZO F. HE END ON
A BUSINESS MAN.
A LONZO F. HERNDON was born, of
slave parentage, on a Walton County
(Ga.) farm, June 26, 1858. In his earlier
years he was able to spend in school only a
total of twelve months, scattered over a
period of ten years. For several years he
was hired out, with his mother, as a farm
hand. In 1877, at the age of 21, he left farm
life and became a journeyman barber. He
worked at Jonesboro, Ga., Rome, Ga., and
at Chattanooga, Tenn., and finally came to
Atlanta. To-day he owns and controls three
THE GRAND OLD
MAN.
ILLIAM H.
CROGMAN
was born in the West
Indies, May 15,1841,
and when still a boy
he went to sea. For
eleven years he fol-
lowed this life. At
length, impelled to
get an education, at
the age of 25 he be-
gan to save money
for this purpose, and two years later he
entered Pierce Academy in Middleboro, Mass.
In two years he completed his work in the
academy, and he then taught for three years
in South Carolina. In the fall of 1873 he
entered Atlanta University, from which
institution he was graduated in 1876. About
the time of his graduation in 1876 there
was established in South Atlanta Clark
University, and Mr. Crogman was called to
a position on the faculty of this institution.
He became professor of Latin and Greek,
and later, for seven years (1903-1910),
served as president. His record of thirty-
MEN OF THE MONTH
15
eight years of continuous service at Clark
is, perhaps, without a parallel in the history
of Negro education. Professor Crogman
is the author of several works, notably “The
Colored American,” “The Progress of a
Race” and “Talks for the Times.” With
his scholarship, his earnestness and his quiet
dignity, he is an
honor not only to his
college, but to the en-
tire race as well.
m
AN INTERNAL
REVENUE
COLLECTOR.
T T is fortunate that
**• Mr. Charles W.
Anderson, the colored
internal revenue col-
lector, who was ap-
pointed by President
Roosevelt and con-
tinued through the
Taft administration,
is still holding office
in the trying first
months of the income
tax. Mr. Anderson
i s considered the
best-informed man
on the income tax in
the government’s em-
ploy. As soon as
Congress began to
discuss the subject,
and long before it was passed, he began to
read everything obtainable on this form of
taxation and he also read every congressional
discussion of it.
It was through Mr. Anderson’s thorough
knowledge of the law that he has been able
to carry on the intricate work of collecting
the tax with no serious and expensive
errors. The added expense in salaries did
not exceed $200 a month. Chiefly women
were employed because of their tact and
patience in answering' the thousands of
questions *asked. Secretary McAdoo sug-
gested the employment of a $25,000-a-year
lawyer to deal with the income tax, but this
proved unnecessary,
as Mr. Anderson
himself is entirely
familiar with the
law. A large num-
ber of the letters
which he received
containing questions
came from lawyers.
More than sixty of
the articles in
Regulations No. 33,
issued by the
Treasury Depart-
ment, are suggestions
submitted to the de-
partment by Mr.
Anderson.
Through his ef-
forts the first collec-
tion of income tax in
New York was car-
ried on most
efficiently and with-
out the usual ex-
pense and confusion
in such a case.
Mr. Anderson was
born in Ohio in 1866. The first public office
which he held was that of United States
gauger. Later he was appointed as private
secretary to the State treasurer of New
York, and after two years was promoted to
#the position of chief clerk in the State
treasury. Following this Mr. Anderson held
office of supervisor of raciug accounts.
HON. CHARLES W. ANDERSON.
IN COLLECTOR ANDERSON'S
__(Photo by Underwood & Underwood, N. V.)
OFFICE
NEGRO ART.
r PhK time has passed,” says the Boston
Transcript, “when learned critics cry
out upon ragtime. The time is here when
they ‘study’ it, and seriously announce that
it demands consideration as a genuine art
form. The rag-tag rabble knew that long
ago, though they didn’t necessarily say so
in print. Helmholtz (or was it Professor
James?) said that every truth passes through
three stages. First, people say it is absurd.
Then they say it is contrary to religion.
Then they say that everybody. knew it all
along. Ethically, ragtime is now in the
second stage. Musically it has almost reached
the third. When critics cease to ‘study’ it,
and accept it naturally, as the rag-tag
rabble did long ago, it will have attained
its majority.”
The truth of this has been illustrated by
the third annual concert of the Colored
Music School Settlement of New York. The
Outlook says:
“It is doubtful .whether during the whole
year any other concert is given in New York
City which would appeal to so wide a variety
of musical taste as this did—and appeal
strongly, too—from the taste that is wholly
pleased and satisfied by ragtime to the taste
that finds delight in the artistic use of
musical material. • • •
“In the history of musical art this concert
was highly significant. It not only marked
the emergence of the Negro race into a land
of musical freedom; but, what is most sig-
nificant, it proved that this race could bring
into this free domain its rich racial
treasures. • • •
“Most significant of all, however, was the
work of Will Marion Cook. This accom-
plished Negro composer, who has studied in
Germany as well as in this country, has done
a very great service to the art of music. No
one who has heal'd the real untutored sing-
ing of Negroes in the heart of the South—
whether by congregations in the churches or
by groups of laborers in the open air—can
ever again be satisfied with the Negro sing-
ing that one commonly hears from Negro
choruses performing in public, in which all
the Negro characteristics of rhythm and tone
have been conventionalized. It seemed as if
all that would survive in art of Negro music
would be this pale reflection. Dvorak used
Negro, or negroid-, themes; but all the jump
had gone out of them. Coleridge-Taylor, the
Negro composer of England, used Negro
themes somewhat; but he used them as a
white man might have done. Will Marion
Cook uses them, and he uses them as only a
Negro uses them. And, what is more, he
has instructed the Afro-American Folk-
song. Singers to sing with that indefinable
manner in rhythm and tone that takes one
right into the miAst of the black belt. It is
a great artistic triumph.
“All honor to these Negro musicians who
are proud of their race; all honor to David
Mannes, the white musician who has repaid
his debt to his colored teacher by giving
Negroes a chance to be musicians through
the establishment of the Music School Settle-
ment for Colored People.”
The musical critic of the New York Times
says:
“The subject of Negro music is receiving
a good deal of attention nowadays in various
directions among people not of the race, for
which reason the music presented last night
was all the more interesting. All that part
of it which related to singing was well
performed and forced serious consideration.
The orchestral work was perhaps a step far
outside the natural genius of the race for as
fortunate results, but at least it demonstrated
that painstaking attention is being given to
this branch of musical development.”
OPINION
17
The Evening Post declares that:
“The contribution of Negro singers and
writers to American music has been a notable
one, and every effort made to develop this
great talent of the race deserves the widest
support from all interested in musical art.
There are few as musically interesting enter-
tainments in the course of a New York
season.”
The New York Evening Journal, in an
editorial on the evening of the concert, said:
“Concerning the Negro and the problem
that he represents for himself and for others
in this country, there are probably as many
opinions as there are colored men, women
and children.
“But nobody, surely, questions the advis-
ability of helping the Negro race to develop
and use its very great and natural talent for
music.
“Of all the races in this country, the Negro
alone has developed an actual school of
American music. Ail that we have, except
Negro melody, is imitation.
“The Negroes have given us the only music
of our own that is American—national,
original and real.”
Musical America, while commending the
concert, has this criticism:
“If the Negro Symphony Orchestra will
give its attention during the coming year
to a movement or two of a Haydn sym-
phony and play it at its next concert, and if
the composers, who this year took obvious
pleasure in conducting their marches, tangos
and waltzes, will write short movements for
orchestra, basing them on classic models,
next year’s concert will inaugurate a new
era for the Negro musician in New York
and will aid him in being appraised at his
full value and in being taken seriously. It
is impossible to applaud in Carnegie Hall
his imitations of the vulgar dance music of
Broadway originated by the tone poets of
Tin Pan Alley.”
Mr. James Reese Europe, who led the
orchestra, said in an interview:
“No, the great improvements in higher
education for the Negro have not developed
music as you might think. The schools and
colleges for the Negro are all of an industrial
character. The artistic side has naturally
been neglected as of less importance. That
is our great difficulty. The people of my
race who love music must train themselves.
Strictly speaking, I had no 'musical educa-
tion myself.”
“The American Art Association of Paris,”
says the Paris Herald, “held a large recep-
tion in the clubrooms, 4 Rue Joseph
Bara, to open its annual exhibition of mem-
bers’ work. The principal interest, perhaps,
centers in a canvas called rFishermen,’ by
H. O. Tanner.”
Paul Reboux, poet, novelist, dramatist,
lecturer, president of the Association des
Critiques Litteraires, and successor of
Catulle Mendes as literary critic of Le
Journal; and Madame Leone Georges
Reboux, his wife, painter and decorative
artist, exhibitor at the annual salon of La
Comedie Humaine, and exhibitor and mem-
ber of the jury of the Salon des Dessina-
teurs Humoristes, are coming to America.
The Boston Transcript says that:
“The objective point of his trip is New
Orleans, where he counts upon getting local
color for a novel of Negro life, to be
entitled ‘Romulus Coucou.’ ‘I want,’ he said,
‘to describe the sufferings of a poor creature,
despised, on the one hand, by the whites, to
whom he is inferior, and envied, on the other
hand, by his fellow blacks, to whom he pos-
sesses certain points of superiority. This
atrocious social dilemma, which I have
reason to believe frequent, is familiar to
Americans. But for us French it is a new
psychological situation. My Negro will be
in love with a French girl. I shall describe
several types of the old French families that
persist in Louisiana and also a family of
black launderers, the family of the unlucky
Romulus. I hope to discover the elements
of a documentation highly picturesque and
alternately ludicrous and moving.’ ”
B
A TEMPEST IN A TEAPOT.
r I ' HE criticism of some colored papers in
the March Crisis has had a character-
istic aftermath. A large number of colored
editors have insisted upon being personally
insulted and have* ascribed the lowest and
meanest motives for this “attack.” As a
matter of fact, here as in so many other
eases The Crisis has but frankly voiced
current criticism and the personality of the
editor has little to do with it. Leaving out
the papers which are merely hysterical or
abusive, we note the reply of the Richmond
Planet, which has for years been character-
18
THE CRISIS
ized by thoughtful editorials. The Platiet
says:
"The editor of a weekly journal seldom
has time to read his manuscript over before
it goes to the compositor. He is editor,
manager, collector and the ‘much sought
after man’ at entertainments. Last, but not
least, he is the paymaster or treasurer of the
business enterprise, with no money in hand
to pay and himself the last employee on the
payroll.”
St. Luke’s Herald says:
"Of course Dr. Du Bois knows there are
some 300 or more Negro publications in
this country, and when he charges that
all save ‘the Guardian, the Cleveland Gazette
and one or two colored papers’ are purchas-
able and do not stand up for freedom and
justice, we fear that the doctor has made
a statement that is by far too sweeping and
too exaggerated.
"It may be that many of us do not pre-
sent the facts, save in a partial and incom-
plete way; it may be that some of us neither
think, speak nor write English; we pass
these by as neither grave nor very serious
when all things are considered. But to
charge that the Negro press, save three or
four papers, is venal, purchasable, unre-
liable, failing in strong, staunch advocacy
of freedom and justice for the Negro, is
monstrous.”
It is monstrous so far as St. Luke’s Herald
is concerned, which is one of the few delight-
fully outspoken colored papers and which
if it voiced its own criticism of the colored
press would probably have been much more
severe than The Crisis has been. We have
much sympathy with the letter of T. Thomas
Fortune. With all Mr. Fortune’s faults, he
is practically the founder of present-day
journalism:
"The Afro-American editors have made
more sacrifices for principle during the past
thirty-five years than any other professional
group of the race. They have done more to
help our leaders, from Douglass and Lang-
ston to Washington and Du Bois, than they
have done to help them; and when leaders
have been ungrateful to them and got in a
false position with regard to the best in-
terests of the race, the editors have been
patient with them and covered them up with
the garment of charity for the race’s sake.
When the leaders have themselves become
editors they have frequently forgotten the
bridges that helped them over when they
came into a good inheritance in the kingdom,
as Dr. Du Bois has done, and others.”
Outside of these few comments there has
been little real argument, and the Charleston
(W. Va.) Advocate says:
"The Advocate holds no brief for The
Crisis, still it cannot refrain from calling
the attention of those editors who are resent-
ing a statement which appeared in 'that
magazine to the fact that much of their
argument is illogical in the extreme.
"The Crisis stated that a very limited
number of Negro newspapers have any
principle, and but few of their editors know
how to use the king’s English. * * *
"Our indignant contemporaries would
appear in a better light if, feeling them-
selves maligned, they would either keep their
mouths shut or else speak to the question
at issue. There is danger of their protesting
o’er much, which would create the suspicion
that maybe the doctor was right after all.”
The Denver Star says:
"While we know the criticism which has
been so generally noticed by all .the leading
journals of color stings, we think that its
wholesome effect toward the improvement of
journalism will follow, yet the Star believes
that papers in his list are exceptions. That
is our opinion. If the cause which Dr. Du
Bois represents is so just, humane and at-
tractive, that the Jew, Jap, beggar, million-
aire, young and old are interested deeply
enough to give their hard-earned cash to
perpetuate and develop such ennobling
principles, why blame . Dr. Du Bois for the
assistance he receives? It is not he (per-
sonally) that attracts, but it is the just cause
he represents. Then why fight the man per-
sonally and not his cause? We know, as well
as our fellow journalists, what it means to
get out a publication regularly and punc-
tually and that it is no child’s play. Dr.
Du Bois knows this and because of this
knowledge he suggests and sets a high
standard, and by so doing he has raised a
‘tempest’ among our editors of color.”
This echoed by a white paper, the Utica
Press:
"The New York Age, a newspaper for
the Negro, is concerned over the charge
made by Dr. Du Bois, himself a Negro, that
the newspapers published by his race are
careless in the use of the English language,
unreliable in presenting facts about the
OPINION
19
Negro, and that some have betrayed the race
to the enemy for cash. Other editors of
Negro papers are up in arms over the allega-
tions of Dr. Du Bois, who is referred to as
an Ishmael and traitor to his race. Perhaps
the statement made by Dr. Du Bois will turn
out a blessing in disguise, for it may be
the means of improving the Negro papers
and inciting their editors to better attempts.”
m
ROTTEN BOROUGHS.
Q H. GIESY has written a long letter to
the chairman of the Republican
national committee:
“In the House and Electoral College the
votes which represent the suppressed voters
of the South count in the choice of Presi-
dent and the making of laws; a reorganiza-
tion of the Republican party which would
condone the iniquity of 1,000 men in the
South having as much voice in Congress
and the Electoral College as 11,000 men in
the North, by denying the suppressed
Southern voters even representation in a
Republican convention, would be tearing
down the standard raised by Lincoln of a
government ‘of the people, by the people,
for the people.’
“If Senator Cummins desires to remedy
the inequality of which he complains, he
better start at its source and enforce sec-
tion 2 of the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution and reduce the .representation
of the South in the House and Electoral
College.
“By common consent the question of
Southern representation in the Republican
convention of 1916 is the only question to
be referred to the Republican convention of
1914. But will the settlement of this ques-
tion one way or the other close the breach
between the Progressives and the Republi-
cans? In the Progressive convention at
Chicago they had one delegate for each
Representative and Senator in Congress. The
reduction of Southern representation was no
part of their program. • • •
“Former Senator Beveridge, in a speech at
New Orleans before the, Southern Progres-
sive conference, in urging the South to
affiliate with the Progressive party, made no
suggestion of reduction of Southern repre-
sentation as a tenet of Progressive faith.
Possibly he knew he would not get any re-
cruits for the Progressive party in the South
by any such suggestion, as the South never
has objected to voting for the Negro, but
only to having the Negro vote for himself ”
Meantime the double disfranchisement of
the white primary proceeds in the South.
Every Evening, of Wilmington (Del.), says:
“In response to the somewhat surprising
contention of the Morning News that the
restriction,, by the rules of the Democratic
party of Kent County, of voting at Demo-
cratic primaries to ‘white male citizens’ is
something new in this State, the Dover Index
points to the rules of the Democratic party
of New Castle County, which contain the
same restriction. These rules were adopted
May 10, 1910, but are a substitute for rules
previously operative which had contained
the same provision. In fact, the written rules
of the Democratic party of New Castle
County, originally adopted in 1S76 and sub-
sequently amended to accord with the
primary election law following its enact-
ment in 1889, declared from the first that
only white male citizens should vote at Demo-
cratic primaries, and no popular primary
in New Castle County—established for the
nomination of candidates for sheriff and
coroner nearly three-quarters of a century
ago—was open to Negroes, even after the
latter were clothed with the privilege of
franchise.”
The Charlotte Observer declares that:
“The insertion of the words ‘white Demo-
crats’ in the requirements to participate in
the coming county Democratic primary is
simply a public expression of the unwritten
law in Southern Democratic circles. Here-
tofore the colored members of the party have
had the privilege of taking part in the party
primaries, but they have, as a rule, declined
, do do so, realizing that they were not
wanted.”
m
THE “DECLINE” OF LYNCHING.
HP HE season of rejoicing at the decline of
lynching in the United States has been
rather long drawn out this year and quite
vociferous. Naturally it has been led by the
Bourbon Outlook. The Outlook admits to
having heard that the editor of The Crisis
“claims that seventy-five of his people were
hanged by mobs in 1913,” but the Outlook
waves this little discrepancy aside with
slight attention because, “as Dr. Du Bois
has accepted as authoritative the Chicago
20
THE CRISIS
Tribune’s figures for the years prior to 1913,
his statistics for that year can hardly be
admitted for purposes of comparison.”
This naturally settles the matter and we
are simply appending two personal communi-
cations; one from a minister in the South
who bears a name known with honor through-
out the world. He says:
“A Negro ‘assaulted* a white man Satur-
day, January 3, at Monticello, Jasper
County, Ga. In other words, the black and
the white man had a fight and the white
individual got the worst of it. In retalia-
tion the friends of the white man carried
the Negro about a mile out of town and
brutally beat and kicked him. The affair
was ended by hanging him. But, strange to
say, not one word of this happening has
appeared in any paper. The Atlanta papers
failed to publish any reference to it.”
To this we add some details of the little
affair in Leland, Miss.:
“The news spread like wildfire and in
twenty minutes the entire white population
was armed and headed for the cabin which
was situated about a half mile from the
depot, which is in the center of the town.
I looked in every direction and could see
men and mere boys, some not over 12
yeai^ old, carrying rifles, shotguns, pistols
and, in fact, every imaginable thing that
would shoot. They were .acting as though
there was an entire army of Negroes to be
taken. The man who had killed the officer
submitted to arrest by the mob, which by
this time numbered about 400. Placing a
rope around his neck he was led to the
center of the town and in the presence of
women and children they proceeded to hold
a conference as to the kind of death that
should be meted out to him. Some yelled
to hang him; some to burn him alive. It
was decided in a few minutes. Willing hands
brought a large dry-goods box, placed it in
the center of the street; in it was straw on
which was poured a tub of oil; then tlie
man was lifted with a rope around his neck
and placed in this box head down, and then
another tub of oil was poured over him. A
man from the crowd deliberately lit a match
and set fire to the living man. While in
this position the flames shot up at great
height. The crowd began to yell as the
flames shot upward. In an instant the poor
creature managed to lift himself out of the
box, a mass of flames. He was fighting the
flames with his hands in an effort to shield
his face and eyes, and in this condition
attempted to run. . The crowd allowed him
to run to the length of the rope, which was
held by willing hands, until he reached a
distance * of about twenty feet; then a yell
went up from the crowd to shoot. In an
instant there were several hundred shots and
the creature fell in his tracks. The crowd
deliberately walked up to the prostrate form
and shot the remainder of their guns into
his lifeless body. With the flames still
leaping into the air, he was pulled back into
the fire that was now roaring with boxes and
oil brought out of the different stores by
men and boys. Every time they would throw
on more oil and boxes the crowd would yell
as though they were at a bull fight. Stand-
ing about fifty or seventy-five feet from the
scene I could actually smell the flesh of
the poor man as it was being burned. Not
a voice was raised in the defense of the
man. No one attempted to hide their
identity. I looked into the faces of men
whom I knew to be officers of the town
lending a willing hand in the burning of this
man. No wonder the coroner who held the
inquest returned a verdict that the Negro
came to his death “at the hands of an
enraged mob unknown to the jury,” because
to get a jury in that town they had to get
some who participated in the burning. I
can never feel toward the white man as I
have felt after seeing what I have attempted
to describe. After burning the body into
ashes the burned bones and ashes were
buried in the edge of the street in front of
a colored barber shop.
“May God forbid that any other living
man will ever see a sight as I witnessed;
this is the third Negro who has been killed
in this vicinity in the last three weeks. The
man burned was named Sam Pettie, known
by everybody to be quiet and inoffensive. I
write this hoping you may get enough out
of what I have tried to describe to tell your
great number of readers what we are up
against. To mention my name in connection
with this would be equivalent to committing
suicide.”
The New York Sun said of the most
recent diversion in Oklahoma, when the
chivalry of the white South lynched a
woman:
“She made no disturbance. She died
quietly. Quietly the executioners dispersed.
OPINION
21
The whole affair ‘went off' with a tranquil
propriety that must be a source of pride to
the posse of hangmen, the town, the county,
the State—a State which rejoices in all.the
most modern constitutional improvements.
“ ‘No warrants have been issued/ says a
dispatch; ‘and public sentiment is with the
mob.’ It seems that the sentences of certain
Negroes of the county convicted of murder
were commuted by the governor. Therefore
public opinion approves the murder of this
Negress. She is punished illegally because
some men of her color have not been punished
to the extent of the law.
“A noble, pure Caucasian sentiment is
strong in Oklahoma. This execution by mob
initiative and referendum should be a warn-
ing to the blacks.”
Life is afraid that if .it is true that
lynchings have decreased, it is a bad sign
and asks: “Can it be possible that we are
growing sentimental?”
SIX WOMEN.
Cj PEAKING of lynching and the like,
^ these little bits come to us this month,
all worth noting. In California our atten-
tion is drawn to Los Angeles and Marys-
ville. A young colored man kissed a white
girl in Los Angeles, apparently against her
will, and also robbed her of 10 cents. Judge
Willis, of the Supreme Court, sentenced him
to thirty years' in jail. Just about a month
before that two of the Marysville rioters
had been sentenced to prison. In that riot
which occurred August 3, 1913, the deputy
sheriff started to shoot a Swedish working
girl. Inez Haynes Gilmore tells the rest of
the story in Harper’s Weekly:
“Then occurred the splendid episode of
the Porto Rican.
“This nameless hero of the hop pickers
was a gigantic brown Negro. Nobody
knows anything about him. It is likely
that all we shall ever know is the magnifi-
cent revolt of the last fifteen seconds of his
life. In that quarter of a minute, how-
ever, he flared to blood-red prominence.
When Reardon pointed his gun at the
Swedish girl’s head the Porto Rican became
a whirlwind. He grappled with Reardon,
tore the club from his hand, criicked him
over the head, seized Reardon’s gun, shot
him dead, swung about, shot District
Attorney Manwell dead, and the next instant
himself dropped dead from a charge of
buckshot from Deputy Sheriff Daken’s gun.
La Follette’s publishes this little story:
“My, but the day was warm! and the
flight- of stairs leading to the elevated
station was long.
“I was going down, which was easy. I
met her, coming up.
“She was a young colored woman, of
thirty or thereabout! She had a year-old
baby in her arms, and a child of two or two
and a half was bravely trying to climb the
stairs alone. And finding it very hard.
“It was one of those warm days in early
spring, when one still wore his winter clothes.
The little child wore a heavy coat and cap.
“The mother tried to help her, but was
herself already overburdened. She carried
not only the babe in her arms, but one yet
unborn.
“I met them about half way up.
“My babies had always resented the
assistance of strangers, and I felt that the
little girl might resent my help. I, how-
ever, took the chance of it and, picking her
up, carried her to the top of the stairs.
Fortunately she did not protest, but ac-
cepted the help, quite as a matter of course.
“But the mother nearly broke my heart—
for with tears in her eyes she thanked and
blessed me.
“It was not simply that I had carried her
baby up a flight of stairs. It was that I, a
white woman, had carried her black baby
girl!
“I knew it was that which brought the
tears and the overwhelming gratitude.
“The pity of it!
“Neither of us responsible for our color!”
And in the same paper Mary Autin, the
wonderful immigrant girl, is quoted as
saying:
“When my little girl sits next to the little
boy whose mother works in a factory all
day and her lad uses language he learns on
the street and my little girl asks me why he
uses such language, it offers me the oppor-
tunity to give her the first insight into wrong
social conditions, which can only be learned
by real contact and experience. When she
comes home and tells me of the gibes aimed
at a little colored girl in the school, I seize
the chance to teach her the inhumanity of
such discrimination.”
“A good Negro is never a problem,” says
the Rev. Frederick E. Taylor, of Indian-
22
THE CRISIS
apolis, wagging his head wisely. We com-
mend him on this communication which we
have just received:
“On February 15, at Cape May, N. J., an
intoxicated white man named Charles
Simons broke into the home of Mrs. Mark
Cheek about 12 m. The frightened woman
seized her sleeping child and ran to the
neighbors, who came and, finding the man
still in the house, drove him away.
“The next day she applied to the nearest
magistrate for a warrant. He refused and
she had to apply to the mayor of the
neighboring city to have the arrest made.
Simons was given a hearing and bound over
for trial at the April term of court. He
waived indictment and the case was tried at
a special court on March 11. The evidence
was incontrovertible and the judge pro-
nounced him guilty, but stated that as a
number of prominent white men had asked
him for leniency, he would suspend sentence
on condition that Simons take the pledge to
abstain from intoxicants. He took no note
of the fact that Simons is a paroled prisoner
on a charge of rape for which he was con-
victed and served part of a sentence.”
Finally, from Wagoner, Okla., comes the
month’s special news in the lynching of a
woman, which sums up in itself the deviltry
and moral bankruptcy of the South:
“The murder of Peace occurred Saturday
night in what is known as the ‘Bottoms,’ a
Negro section of tbfe town. The woman was
in jail.
“Peace and a number of young men and
boys had gone to the ‘Bottoms’ and had a
more or less hilarious time, it appears. Peace
and one companion were separated from the
rest, and as they left a house the Scott
woman stepped out and threatened to kill
Peace. The men thought she was drunk or
full of ‘dope’ and laughed at her. Suddenly
she, sprang upon Peace and with one swift
stroke drove the keen blade of a knife into
his heart. With a scream he sank to the
ground and expired.
“Just a short while before, 'Peace’s father,
who is a farmer living near Wagoner, had
seen his son and told him that it was about
time to go home. He had not gene far
enough after that warning to be out of hear-
ing when the murder occurred and he heard
his son’s death cry.
“While it was not generally known, it has
developed since the murder that Peace had
a young wife here in Wagoner and that they
had been married several months.
“The mob is supposed to have been organ-
ized in the country ijear Wagoner where
Peace’s father lives, and was joined by men
in Wagoner when it arrived. The Negro
woman did not utter a cry when the mob
reached her or any other time, the jailer
says; but she fought the mob viciously after
she had been taken out of the jaiL There
is a deep dent in her skull where, apparently,
some member of the mob struck her over the
head with a six-shooter, but this was the
only mark of violence on her body aside from
that made by ropes.”
A local white paper is forced tc remark
editorially:
“We shall not say or intimate anything
ill of the dead, in the absence of knowledge,
especially, but it is significant that the press
reports are silent as to the provocation, if
any, the Negress received from her victim.
If she thus resented an attempt upon her
chastity she but exercised her right.”
■ ■ T^WO LETTERS mm
FROM A NORTHERN WHITE WOMAN.
X/TRS. EDWARD L. BUCKLEY’S sub-
A seription to The Crisis expires
in ----. Will you kindly discontinue
sending it after this date? To my
understanding its influence is inflammatory
and in that way far from beneficial to the
race.
FROM A SOUTHERN WHITE MAN.
T HAD The Crisis for a little and may
A take it again. I think your side of the
problem ought to be heard even by
Southern white men. I believe you will get
a lot of subscribers if you try among them. •
Thank you for the opportunity.
East Lake, Tenn. IT. E. Partridge.
£
EDITORIAL
' 1 ' » • (*
^3
A QUESTION OF POLICY.
HE Editor of The Crisis:
I wish the best success
of your cause. May I
therefore call your at-
tention and that of your
readers to certain rather
characteristic points in your interest-
ing Easter number of the magazine, in
which I suspect that you tend to de-
feat your main purpose ? First, I
doubt whether your judgment of the
late Mr. Robert C. Ogden was fair. If
he did not admire “a self-conscious7’
Negro, he did not like self-consciousness
in anyone. The ideal type of man, black
or white, is not thinking about him-
self. Granting, however, that you put
your finger on a certain limitation in
Mr. Ogden’s democracy, my point is
that we ought to give “the benefit of
the doubt” to the men of Mr. Ogden’s
type. If they are not the best friends
of the most progressive movement, still
let us claim them heartily as friends.
Otherwise we tend to halt the proces-
sion. To claim them as friends tends
to move such men our way. For what
end do we talk if not to persuade? To
persuade those who agree with us ? That
is cheap work. We want to persuade
those who are on the fence, hesitating
whether to come further.
Secondly, what you say of capitalizing
the word Negro strikes me again as
characteristic of the same attitude (shall
I say it?) of carrying a chip on the
shoulder. For I must confess that,
though brought up in the sturdiest old
anti-slavery traditions, I was never
taught to spell either Negro or white
with a capital. I still object to spell
“white” after this new convention, and
yet I wish to treat my colored friends
as well as I treat white people. I
suspect that most people do not know
this new style of capitalization, and are
quite innocent of the intent to give
offense.
Thirdly, I think you go off the line of
useful persuasion and create needless
antagonism in what you say on page 286
of Mr. Roosevelt’s remark that “the
best men in the United States believe
in treating each man, of whatever color,
absolutely on his worth,” etc. You and
I wish this to become true. Do you
imagine that it is the slightest help
to our purpose to denounce Mr. Roose-
velt’s statement as a “falsehood”? Why
not better keep the fine sentence in print
in every issue of The Crisis, till the
colonel comes back from South Amer-
ica? The more people who are made to
see this sentence the sooner the world
•will come to believe it, and act up to
it. The oftener you call such a word
false the slower you inevitably make
human progress toward our ideal.
We wonder sometimes at educated
people who seem never to have grappled
with the philosophy of evolution! Is it
possible that the management of The
Crisis, a progressive paper, is still
living in the period of dualism, and
thinks that we civilize the world in pro-
portion to the number of people whom
we can stir up to feel ugly?
Finally, why do you hurt and spoil
the touching effect of the story of lynch-
24
THE CRISIS
ing at Leland, Miss., by what seems a
clear 31ur at President Wilson and
President Eliot? Has either of them
ever given encouragement to lynching?
Here are ninety millions of people
emerging from the barbarism of only a
few generations ago. The wonder is that
there is so little killing; the fact is that
society is steadily setting its face against
it'. Please say every positive word you
like to establish the manliness, the
patience and the courage of your
leaders. Please do the least possible to
arouse resentment of bitterness, which is
sure to react upon those who stir it.
Please do more of what you are doing
every month, to show the growth of a
kindly good will among all kinds of
people. For good will is the only irre-
sistible power in the universe.
Respectfully your friend,
Charles F. Dole.
M
THE PHILOSOPHY OF ME. DOLE.
E publish very gladly Mr.
Dole’s criticism of The
Crisis, because of our
deep respect for the
writer and because he
voices a real and vital
disagreement with our policy which is
continually, in one way or another,
coming to expression. It is briefly this
thesis:	“Don’t antagonize, don’t be
bitter; say the conciliatory thing; make
friends and do not repel them; insist on
and emphasize the cheerful and good
and dwell as little as possible on wrong
and evil.”
The Crisis does not believe in this
policy so far as the present status of
the American Negro problem is con-
cerned. We could imagine many social
problems, and many phases in a par-
ticular problem, when the watchful wait-
ing, the tactfully conciliatory attitude
would be commendable and worth while.
At other tipaes it would be suicidal and
this, in our opinion, is one of the times.
It was ever so. When the Hebrew
prophets cried aloud there were re-
spectable persons by the score who said:
1 * Unfortunate exaggeration! ’ ’
“Unnecessary feeling!”
*4 Ungodly bitterness! *1
Yet the jeremiads were needed to
redeem a people. When the abolition-
ists began, not simply to say, but to act
as if slavery were a “covenant with
hell,” there were plenty of timid souls
*1 on the fence, hesitating,” who
scrambled down hastily on the popular
side and were willing to lynch Garrison
and ostracize Phillips.
All this might be beside the mark if we
had not already tried Mr. Dole’s pre-
scriptions. For now nearly twenty years
we have made of ourselves mudsills for
the feet of this Western world. We have
echoed and applauded every shameful
accusation made against 10,000,000 vic-
tims of slavery. Did they call us in-
ferior half-beasts? We nodded our
simple heads and whispered: “We is.”
Did they call our women prostitutes and
our children bastards? We smiled and
cast a stone at the bruised breasts of
our wives and daughters. Did they
accuse of laziness 4,000,000 sweating,
struggling laborers, half paid and
cheated out of much of that? We
shrieked: “Ain’t it so?” We laughed
with them at our color, we joked at our
sad past, and we told chicken stories
to get alms.
And what was the result? We got
“friends.” I do not believe any people
ever had so many “friends” as the
American Negro to-day! He has nothing
but “friends” and may the good God
deliver him from most of them, for they
are like to lynch his soul.
What is it to be a friend of the Negro ?
It is to believe in anything for him
except, perhaps, total and immediate
annihilation. Short of that, good and
kind friends of colored folk believe that
he is, in Mr. Dooley’s charming phrase,
“aisily lynched,” and ought to be oc-
casionally. Even if 2,662 accused black
people have been publicly lynched,
EDITORIAL
25
burned and mutilated in twenty-eight
years (not to mention the murder of
perhaps 10,000 other black folk), our
friends think we ought not to disturb
the good President of these United
States because “the wonder is that there
is so little killing!”
It is the old battle of the better and
the best. The worst foes of Negro man-
hood to-day are those compromising
friends who are willingly satisfied with
even less than half a loaf. They want
the Negro educated; but the South
objects to Negro colleges. Oh, very well,
then, high schools; but the South objects
to “literary” training for “niggers!”
Dear, dear! Then “industrial’’ train-
ing; but the South objects to training
any considerable number of Negroes for
industry; it wants them for menial
service. Very well, train them as
servants and field hands—anything as
long as it is “education!” Then we and
The Crisis rise and say: “But-------”
Our friends raise deprecating hands;
they adjust the sofa pillows, ^shade the
light, and say: “Now, now! Give
them the benefit of the doubt!”
Or we clamor for the right to vote.
“Of course you should vote,” say our
friends. “But,” says the South, “they
are too ignorant and inexperienced; we
will vote for them.” “Excellent,” cry
our friends, “vote for them and guard
them in their civil rights.” “What’s
this?” asks the South. “We mean their
economic rights,” say our friends
glibly, “their right to work and get
property.” “Yes,” answers the South
calmly, “the right to work, and we’ll
work them.” “But---------” cries The
Crisis and the black man who has been
worked long enough. “Sh!” answer
our friends. “You’ll halt the
procession!”
That’s precisely what we intend to
do. For twenty-five years we have let
the procession go by until the system-
atic denial of manhood rights to black
men in America is the crying disgrace of
the century. We have wrongs, deep
and bitter wrongs. There are local and
individual exceptions; there are some
mitigating circumstances; there is much
to be excused; there is much to be said;
and yet for the great mass of 10,000,000
Americans of Negro descent these
things are true:
We are denied education.
We are driven out of the Church of
Christ.
We are forced out of hotels, theatres
and public places.
We are publicly labeled like dogs when
we travel.
We can seldom get decent employ-
ment.
We are forced down to the lowest
wage scale.
We pay the highest rent for the
poorest homes.
We cannot buy property in decent
neighborhoods.
We are held up to ridicule in the press
and on the platform and stage.
We are disfranchised.
We are taxed without representation.
We are denied the right to choose our
friends or to be chosen by them, but
must publicly announce ourselves as
social pariahs or be suggestively kicked
by the Survey.
In law and custom our women have
no rights which a white man is bound
to respect.
We cannot get justice in the courts.
We are lynched with impunity.
.We are publicly, continuously and
shamefully insulted from the day of our
birth to the day of our death.
And yet we are told not to be “self-
conscious;” to lie about the truth in
order to make it “come true;” to
grapple with the “philosophy of evolu-
tion;” and not to make people “feel
ugly” by telling them “ugly facts.”
Few admire Mr. Dole, personally,
more than the editor of The Crisis. Mr.
Dole is the type of what the American
of the future may be: fine in feeling,
delicate in touch, sensitive to the subtle
beauties of the world. But Mr. Dole’s
26
THE
CRISIS
feet never walked the way we tread. He
does not know—he cannot conceive this
darker world of insult, repression,
hunger and murder. He and Charles
William Eliot and Woodrow Wilson and
millions of others have given no encour-
agement to lynching, except by silence!
Except by silence!
EXCEPT BY SILENCE!
Who ever tried harder than the Negro
and his “friends’’ to use the lie for
social betterment? We have lied about
the South so strenuously that this may
account for the persistent blackness of
our faces. Oh, yes: the South is the
true, tried friend of Negroes; the South
wants them educated; the South detests
lynching; the South loves black mam-
mies and buries them handsomely; the
little playful antics of mobs are but
ebullitions of Anglo-Saxon energy or at
worst the faults of “poor white trash,”
who do not count. Moreover, those who
dispute these statements are either med-
dling white Northerners or impudent
Negroes who want to marry white
women.
All of this we black folk and our
“friends” have been saying glibly and
frequently. We were lying, and we
knew we were lying, to make the “false-
hood come true;” but did the world
know this? Did we not lull this nation
to false security and fatuous insensi-
bility? And is the uneasiness of our
friends at the plain talk of The Crisis
the cause of ugly feeling or the neces-
sary result of ridiculous lies? How far
may we indeed meddle with the truth?
Where is the boundary line between
getting people “to come and believe”
what is ubtrue and telling them on your
honor that black is white? We have a
sincere desire to see a little brochure by
Mr. Dole—with hand-made paper, deckle
edged and privately printed—on “The
Uses of the Lie as a Means of Social
Salvation.” We would like to distribute
a few copies in Heaven among Mr. Dole’s
Puritan ancestors and listen to the
ensuing profanity.
It is the palpable evasions of our
friends, and our earnest friends like
Mr. Dole, that are most discouraging.
When we protest at the plain insult of
“negro,” Mr. Dole answers that we do
not capitalize “white.” But white is-
not the correlative of Negro, as Mr.
Dole knows right well. “Black” and
‘* colored9 ’ are ' the correlatives to
“white,” while Negro is used exactly
as the words Malay or German or Jew
or Indian are used. To refuse a word
so used capitalization is a petty and
usually a deliberate insult.
Humanity is progressing toward an
ideal; but not, please God, solely by
help of men who sit in cloistered ease,
hesitate from action and seek sweet-
ness and light; rather we progress to-
day, as in the past, by the soul-torn
strength of those who can never sit still
and silent while the disinherited and the
damned cjog our gutters and gasp their
lives out on our front porches. These
are the men who go down in the blood
and dust of battle. They say ugly things
to an ugly world. They spew the luke-
warm fence straddlers out of their
mouths, like God of old; they cry aloud
and spare not; they shout from the
housetops, and they make this world
so damned uncomfortable with its nasty
burden of evil that it tries to get good
and does get better.
Evolution is evolving the millennium,
but one of the unescapable factors in
evolution are the men who hate wicked-
ness and oppression with perfect hatred,
who will not equivocate, will not excuse,
and will be heard. With the sainted
spirits of such as these The Crisis
would weakly but earnestly stand and
cry in the world’s four corners of the
way; and it claims no man as friend who
dare not stand and cry with it.
ATLANTA
STRIVING
By
BENJ. GRIFFITH BRAWLEY

ITHIN the last two years
Atlanta has offered a pecu-
liar field for study by
those who are interested in
the situation and the prob-
lems of the Negro in this
country. Social conditions
have been discussed as never before. Edu-
cation, housing conditions, religious and
moral questions have all been subjected to
searching investigation; and from it all has
resulted a healthier and saner spirit than
the city has known in years.
We begin our review, however, with a
distinct liability. A segregation ordinance
was passed last summer. It is decidedly un-
popular; nobody is inclined to press it very
strongly; and, as has been the case with
many similar measures, in course of time it
will doubtless become less rather than more
effective. At the same time the ordinance
was passed, with all the hideousness of its
“white blocks” and “colored blocks.” How-
ever we may have advanced within the last
year in Atlanta, we must remember that in •
this instauce we lost.
The chief monument to the material ad-
vance of the Negro in Atlanta within the
last year is the new Odd Fellows Building
on Auburn Avenue. This sturdy structure,
erected by the Odd Fellows of the State of
Georgia, is on a $10,000 site. The building
itself cost $115,000, and is elegantly ap-
pointed throughout. On the first floor there
is space for six stores; the second and third
floors hold three lai;ge rooms each; and the
fourth, fifth and sixth stories are adapted
for office use, each holding fourteen rooms.
Merely to walk through this excellent build-
ing is to receive a new respect for Negro
THE GRAND OLD MAN.
(See Men of the Month)
enterprise. But the Odd Fellows have gone
further. Adjoining the office building, on
a plot of ground 139x100 feet, and cost-
ing $53,000, is now in course of erection
another building designed as an auditorium.
In addition	to	the main	auditorium,	the
building, which will cost $S0,000, will con-
tain eight stores and eighteen offices. All
of this work of the Odd Fellows marks a
new era in	the	material	progress of	the
Negro in Atlanta.
The largest single enterprise that has
worked for	the	bringing	together of	the
Negroes of the city within the last two years
is the effort for a new Y. M. C. A. build-
ing. The campaign for a $100,000 building
for Negro young men was begun in Febru-
ary, 1911. Soon the Negro people of the
city had subscribed as much as $53,000. The
real work of the campaign came, of course,
when the pledges began	to be collected.
Nothing could be finer than the undaunted
faith with which a few stalwart souls have
stood by their task in the face of all possible
discouragement uutil gradually all classes
have been infused with something of their
spirit. On the night of Sunday, December
14, a magnificent audience of about 7,000
people of all denominations gathered in the
COLORED ODD EELLOWS BUILDING, ATLANTA, GA.
(Side view with auditorium and stores; for front view, see cover.)
ATLANTA STRIVING
29
large auditorium-armory for a great demon-
stration. Among others the governor of the
State spoke, and more and more the meeting
took on the character of a great forum for
the races. But not only on this occasion
have men of prominence worked in behalf
of the movement. From Sunday to Sunday,
in mass meetings only less large, some of
the foremost ministers and business men of'
the city have worked for the cause. One
very busy man, Mr. W. Woods White, a
white man of large insurance interests, has
week after week done some of the hardest
work of the campaign in the arduous tasks
of long committee meetings. To-day the
building seems assured. So far $15,000 has
been collected from Negro people, one man,
Mr. David T. Howard, an undertaker, con-
tributing $1,000; and the campaign is still on.
Especially noteworthy was the' Southern
Sociological Congress, which assembled in
Atlanta April 25 to 29, 1913. The congress,
of which the session held in Atlanta was the
second, conducted its first convention in
Nashville in 1912. It is hardly too much to
say that the whole movement which it repre-
sents means the inauguration of a new era
in the history of the South. The thinking
class of the South, represented by the
teachers, the preachers and the social
workers, is beginning to make itself heard.
The whole emphasis of the conference was
upon freedom of thought and speech, and
the tone throughout was one of utmost
fairness. Different sessions and committee
meetings were held in different representative
churches of the city, and the Negro was not
only represented on the program, but also
took a very active part in the discussions.
Such large topics as public health, courts
and prisons, child welfare,	organized
charities, race problems and the church
were among those considered.	Nearly a
hundred men and women, drawn from the
ranks of those who are to-day actively en-
gaged in the solution of national problems,
delivered principal addresses. Representa-
tive addresses that showed the scope and
spirit of the conference were: “The Chal- x
lenge of the South for a Better Nation,” by
President S. C. Mitchell, of the University
of South Carolina; “The Convict Lease and
the System of Contract Labor,” by Mr.
Hooper Alexander, a prominent Atlanta
lawyer; “How to Enlist the Welfare Agen-
cies of the South for the Improvement of
Conditions Among the Negroes,” by Dr.
W. D. Weatherford, well known for his books
dealing with the South and the Negro; and
“The Social Program of the Church,” by
Prof. Walter Rauschenbusch, of Rochester
Theological Seminary. The spirit of the
whole congress was fairly summed up in the
words of Mrs. J. D. Hammond, a white
woman of Augusta, Ga.: “All the old
foundations of human life are being tested,
that only the unshakable may remain.
Justice and opportunity for all—that is
the new world cry. • • • As part of all
humanity we share the race task, to widen
the bounds of justice, to open the doors of
opportunity for all, to blend our small lives
with that great Power which makes for
righteousness for all the races of men.”
Another definite mark of progress is the
probation officer for juvenile delinquents
recently appointed. For two years there
has been in Atlanta a special court for
juvenile delinquents, evolved from the larger
police system. Until very recently, how-
ever, there was no special provision for
Negro boys and girls who may have become
subject to the findings of the court. The
matter has now been taken in hand by a
committee composed of President Ware, of
Atlanta University, chairman; President
Hope, of Morehouse College; Mr. Philip
Weltner, secretary of the prison commis-
sion and probation officer of the city of
Atlanta; Mr. J. A. Bigham, associate pro-
fessor of history and economics at Atlanta
University, and Judge Tindall, of the juve-
nile court. On the basis of the Phelps-
Stokes Foundation, the committee has ap-
pointed as special probation officer for
Negro juvenile delinquents Mr. G. W.
Moore, a young man who was graduated at
Morehouse College in 1912, who has since
continued his studies in New York at
Columbia, and who at the time of his ap-
pointment was teaching at Morehouse. Mr.
Moore’s duties are to investigate the home
conditions of the boy or girl summoned to
court; to make to the judge a recommenda-
tion that might either send the boy to a
reformatory or place him on probation; to
watch very carefully those delinquents who
are on probation; and as far as possible to
find in the neighborhood of the individual
case some man who might in a general way
act as “big brother” to the boy under con-
sideration. Naturally enough one of the
30
THE CRISIS
first things that Mr. Moore found on taking
up his work was that facilities for taking
care of delinquents were altogether inade-
quate; there was not even a reformatory
for Negro boys. It is pleasant to record,
however, that a movement was already on
foot for the alleviation of this situation,
land for such a reformatory having been
purchased not far from Atlanta; and there
is hope thait before very long Negro boys
and girls who need correction will receive
better care. In this general connection it
may also be remarked that at the police
station a matron for colored women, Mrs.
Elizabeth Baldwin, has recently entered upon
her duties. It is hard for one unfamiliar
with conditions .in Atlanta to believe that
for so many years there has been at the
police station no such officer as this. Even
now the salary of one who should be
officially employed by the city is paid by
the joint effort of the Methodist Ministers’
Union (colored), the Baptist Ministers’
Union (colored) and the First Congrega-
tional Church. It may also be here re-
marked that the study of Negro crime to be
conducted this year by the Atlanta conference
under the auspices of Atlanta University
will very largely be pursued in connec-
tion with the work of the committee
mentioned above, Mr. Moore and Mr. Big-
ham together doing a good deal of .the heavy
work of the investigation.
Among the efforts of the Negroes of
Atlanta within the last year along the line
of co-operative work must be mentioned
the public-school agitation of last summer.
This came about very largely as a develop-
ment of the work of the Neighborhood
Union, of which Mrs. John Hope is the
general head. This organization, begun in
1908, has developed -until it now includes
not only the parent branch, but also five
other branches. The large purpose of the
Neighborhood Union is to improve the social
conditions of the city. Since it began its
work it has provided a playground for
children; has placed several children in
homes; has obtained the use of public-school
buildings for recreation schools during the
summer vacation; has secured the services
of four trained nurses for those who are not
able to pay for treatment; has aided many
needy families; has purchased on Lee Street
a settlement house; and generally has im-
proved the lighting and sanitary conditions
in many localities. From this organiza-
tion, which took the initiative, developed the
social-improvement committee, which was
intended to be of somewhat larger scope and
which started the agitation for more and
better schools. For years the conditions in
the public schools of Atlanta have been
deplorable. The Roach Street school has
used regularly for first and second grade
work a basement which necessitates artificial
light on dark days and which is so damp as
to injure the health of the children. In
several schools the walls are in very bad
condition. In some schools, notably the
Houston Street school, the Mitchell Street
school and the Pittsburg school, the sani-
tary appointments are so poor that not only
is the health of students and teachers en-
dangered, but every invitation is given
to immorality. In South Atlanta there has
been no school at all for Negro children,
although in this section of the city there are
hundreds of children whose fathers are tax-
payers; and a fact that people in some
parts of the country find difficult to com-
prehend is that in the whole State of
Georgia there is no high school for Negro
boys and girls. As a matter of fact, how-
ever, the greatest grievance has been that
throughout the city, through the sixth
grade, so-called “double sessions” have been
in operation. A teacher handles one group
of students in the morning hours and re-
ceives at noon another group. She thus
frequently handles in the course of the day
over a hundred students. The agitation over
the public schools came late last summer
when it was proposed in some quarters to
do away with the seventh and eighth grades
in the schools, and to substitute for these
grades some industrial features. As a result
of the agitation of the whole school situa-
tion, not only will the present grades be
kept, with the real addition of the industrial
features, but there is also promise of another
school in the near future.
One of the results of the agitation of the
sanitary conditions surrounding the life of
the Negro in Atlanta has been the move-
ment for a hospital for the treatment of the
contagious diseases of Negro patients. The
movement has not been prompted through-
out by the highest motives of altruism, as
the plea has been made largely on the basis
of the protection of white people from in-
fection from Negroes. Whatever the motive,
ATLANTA STRIVING
31
however, the result is a good one. Already a
temporary hospital is in operation; and the
movement for a permanent hospital at an
early date continues to gather force. Just
a few hours before these lines were written
the Rotary Club, composed of representa-
tive business men of Atlanta, appointed a
committee to urge upon the mayor and the
council the necessity of providing a perma-
nent hospital in Atlanta for the care of
colored people suffering with contagious
diseases.
Such are but some of the things which
have interested the people of Atlanta within
the last year. There are other things, of
course. The Standard Life Insurance Com-
pany has been placed on a firm basis; and
the readers of The Crisis will remember
the full account of the organization given
by Mr. Pace in the January number. The
Gate City Free Kindergarten has also con-
tinued its beneficent work. Here and there,
too, one may observe a change of sentiment.
Said Miss Isma Dooly, a member of the
regular staff of the Atlanta Constitution, in
the issue for February 1: “I have often
noticed, with chagrin, that there is a large
element of so-called Christian people in the
community who cry down any practical
effort to help the poorer, more needy element
of the colored population. Though the issue
may be along the line of better housing,
somebody will refer to the seven institutions
around the city for the higher education of
the Negro. Atlanta is not called upon to
support any of these institutions. It is done
by the Negroes themselves and by outside
people, and both these have a right to
build any kind of institution they choose.
If we'do not like that education, we have a
chance to put in the education we do pre-
fer in the public schools for the Negro
which we maintain—and that inadequately
and badly, as pictures taken of actual con-
ditions can prove.”
Anyone reviewing the movements that
have been enumerated is impressed by two
facts. The first is that almost all of the
movements touched upon are closely re-
lated. It has seemed impossible for one to
be interested in any one of the things com-
mented upon without being interested in all.
The Y. M. C. A. committee turned aside in
its meetings to the consideration of the
Sociological Congress; the Neighborhood
Union fostered the public-school agitation;
and the Y. M. C. A. campaign has tended
more than once to become a focus for a
consideration of the whole Negro problem.
The other thing to be noticed is the develop-
ment of the spirit of co-operation among all
those in the city, of any class or race what-
soever, who were interested in social prog-
ress. People who in most ways are as far
apart as the poles have still found that there
are some things on which they can meet
their fellow men on common ground. The
result of it all is that the Negro in Atlanta
is having an intelligent and sympathetic
study of his problems such as he has never
had before.
HEW NEGRO HOMES IN ATLANTA.
THE FIVE-HUNDRED-DOLLAR HABIT
£§]	§§	How One Branch Reached the People	§§
rTTHE sixth check for $500 received on
**■ March 10 from the committee of
fifty and more, of the District of Columbia
branch, set this office in a reminiscent mood.
It was recalled that during the past year we
had been advised many times that a strong
branch in the District of Columbia was an
impossibility, as very few of the colored
people were interested, and those who were
would be unable to take an active part in a
movement so radical because all held posi-
tions with the government or in the schools.
In March, 1913, the District of Columbia
branch was permanently organized. Since
then its membership has increased by more
than 500 and the branch has sent to head-
quarters, in addition to six $500 checks,
about $700 in membership fees and special
contributions. This was the first branch to
contribute $100 to the salary of the attorney.
These results were largely due to the efforts
of the committee of fifty and more, which
is really the finance committee of the Dis-
trict of Columbia branch. This committee
was organized as a result of the wonderful
protest meeting against segregation held in
Washington October 27, 1913. Immediately
after the meeting a few of the leading
colored citizens met and pledged themselves
to raise or donate $25 each to a fund of
$1,000 to be raised by January 1, 1914, for
the National Association. This group soon
developed into a committee known as the
committee of fifty and more, working under
the direction of the District of Columbia
branch.
The committee began a campaign which
literally combed the city and suburbs.
Churches were asked to make their pastors
members. The campaign document which
the committee used with the greatest effect
was a circular letter written by Mr. Neval
H. Thomas, who is known to his friends in
Washington as the “crusader.”
This was widely distributed throughout the
community. The Bee published it in full
without charge. It was reinforced by letters
from the chairman of the committee and sent
to the pastors of the churches with a con-
firmatory letter from a group of ministers.
In the churches, in the lodges of Masons, of
the Eastern Star, of Odd Fellows, in civic
associations and social clubs, in schools, sew-
ing circles—everywhere—contributions were
solicited. In addition to mass meetings, all
of which have been mentioned in previous
numbers of The Crisis, a number of mem-
bers of the branch held a series of smaller
meetings to spread the propaganda of the
association. Some of the speakers addressed
as many as three meetings in one day. One
young man made twenty-five talks in a
whirlwind campaign. Another organized a
little club of night-school students. Each of
these contributed 10 cents a week until they
raised $35, to make them members of the
local branch. The women worked as hard
as the men. They not only gave from their
own purses with the greatest liberality, but
they aroused their fathers, husbands, brothers
and friends to the vital importance of the
cause of the National Association for the*
Advancement of Colored Pedple. The
results have been remarkable. From rich and
poor contributions* have steadily come in.
The branch has reached the people.
The District of Columbia branch is also
achieving success in fighting hostile
legislation.
Lack of space prevents our publishing
Mr. Archibald Grimke’s effective remarks at
the recent hearing on the segregation bills
before the committee on reform of the civil
service. These have been printed in a govern-
ment publication and may be secured free
from national headquarters on application.
White friends of the association who were
present at the hearing write us that Mr.
Grimke’s address and personality made such
a favorable impression on the committee that
largely as a result action on the bills was
postponed.
’ Mr. Grimke also made a protest to the
commissioners of the District of Columbia in
regard to the delay in the construction of
the new colored high school and the con-
gested condition in the present structure. As
a result work on the new school has been
hastened.
We regret that some of the most enthu-
siastic members of the committee of fi£ty
and more will not permit us to make per-
sonal acknowledgment of their magnificent
work for the association. At some future
THE N. A. A. C. P.
33
MR. ARCHIBALD GRIMK£.
date we hope to be permitted to publish a
list of this committee in full.
As this goes to press word comes from
Washington that the very able secretary of
the branch, Mr. W. B. Hartgrove, who has
recently undergone a major operation, is
rapidly improving. Mr. Hartgrove’s quiet
and effective work and his executive ability
have contributed greatly to the success of
the branch.
Baltimore.
The Baltimore branch has another hard
fight on its hands. The Frick bill, a “Jim
Crow” bill, applying to passengers on the
street cars and other electric railway lines
in the State, was recently introduced into
the legislature and favorably reported by the
judiciary committee. This report was
accepted by the house without a dissenting
vote. Word has just come that the bill has
been killed and that the branch was con-
spicuous at the obsequies.
The branch has been busily engaged in
preparing for the sixth annual conference
of the association. The concert given by the
Williams Colored Singers, of Chicago, at
Albaugh’s Theatre, to raise funds for this,
was a success, clearing $170.
At the February meeting held in the
Sharon Baptist Church many new members
joined the association.
m
MEETINGS.
luf R. VILLARD goes west this month to
-*• attend the American . Newspaper
Congress in Lawrence, Kan. His limited
time and many engagements make it impos-
sible for him to accept the numerous invita-
tions that have poured in from branches
requesting him to make addresses. He has
arranged to speak before the following
branches: Topeka, May 14; Kansas City,
May 15; Indianapolis, May 16; Cleveland,
May 17.
On March 3 Mr. Villard addressed the
Garrison Association at the home of Mrs.
Henry Villard. On March 31 he spoke at
the mass meeting held at the Concord Baptist
Church in Brooklyn. Other speakers were
Senator Moses E. Clapp, Dr. W. E. B. Du
Bois and the Rev. Charles S. Morris. Dr.
George Frazier Miller presided. The com-
mittee of arrangements for the meeting were
as follows: Mrs. Alice Wiley Seay, chair-
man; Mr. George E. Wibecan, secretary;
Mr. E. H. Wilson, treasurer; Mr. N. B.
Dodson, chairman of committee on resolu-
tions. Resolutions were passed appointing
a committee to take immediate steps to
organize a Brooklyn branch of the National
Association.
Conference.
As announced in the last number of The
Crisis, the sixth annual conference will be
held in Baltimore May 3, 4 and 5, with a
post-conference meeting in Washington May
6,.	and a meeting with the National Con-
ference of Charities and Corrections at
Memphis, Tenn., during the week of May S.
In addition. to the speakers mentioned in
the last number of The Crisis, the follow-
ing will be on the program: Mr. Jacques
Loeb, who is well known in this country and
in Europe as a scientist, will speak on
“The Theory of Racial inferiority in the
Line of Recent Biological Development;”
Dr. Howard Kelly will speak on the “Color
Problems of Baltimore;” the Rev. S. L.
Theobald, on “The Catholic Church and the
Negro;” Mrs. Havelock Ellis, on “Democracy
and Culture.” Mr. W. Justin Carter, a well-
known attorney of Harrisburg, Pa., will
speak on “Discrimination in the Professions”
34
THE CRISIS
and Prof. T. S. Inborden will speak on "The
Negro and the Land.” Other speakers are
Mr. Butler R. Wilson, Dr. G. R. Waller,
Mr. W. Ashbie Hawkins, Miss Adelene
Moffat and Dr. Joel E. Spingarn. Mr.
Moorfield Storey will preside at the opening
session of the conference on Sunday after-
noon, May 3.
OUR LEGAL BUREAU

By CHAPIN BRINSMADE
Attorney-in-chargc
URING the past month the
attorney has investigated
reports of-racial discrimina-
tion against civil-service
employees of the Atlanta
postoffice.
The present administra-
tion at Washington has been charged with
sacrificing the civil service on the altar of
political expediency. It has been pointed
out that under the income-tax law appoint-
ments to the force of agents, collectors,
deputy collectors, inspectors and other em-
ployees having charge of its execution are
made by the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue, with the approval of the Secretary
of the Treasury, and not from the classified
service; that the banking and currency bill
provides that attorneys, experts, assistant
clerks and other employees provided for by
it shall be appointed without regard to the
provisions of the act of January 16, 1883
(the act establishing the civil service); and
that a rider to the urgent deficiency bill
revoked all the executive orders which had
theretofore placed the positions of deputy
marshal and deputy internal revenue col-
lector in the classified service. The author
of this rider had stated in offering it:
"I know that there is no office in my
judgment under the Democratic administra-
tion that could not be better filled by a
Democrat than by a Republican. If you
call that the spoils system you are welcome
to so denominate it.”
The discharges at the Atlanta postoffice
furnish another illustration. In Atlanta,
however, it is a case of violation, at least
in spirit, of civil-service regulations instead
of a mere elimination of certain cases from
their application. On the other hand, in
Atlanta the authorities run less chance of
serious opposition, because it is the colored
employees who suffer, and their removal
from the service is popular. They have no
votes and no political influence, and they
are not represented in Congress. The post-
office authorities know that as to them the
law can be violated at will, without danger
of retaliation. It is therefore not surprising
that, since the change in administrations, ap-
proximately thirty clerks and carriers,
supposed to be protected by civil-service
regulations, have been discharged.
The postmaster claims that the men re-
moved were dishonest or inefficient, that they
came in when the civil service meant little.
This claim may have some basis in fact,
but it is proposed here to tell of a few cases
personally investigated by the attorney
where such was not the case.
A carrier who had given excellent service
for ten years was charged with telling a
patron, in reply to her inquiry about her
Collier’s Weekly, that newspapers were not
being delivered during the holidays, but were
being destroyed and sold for waste paper.
There is a slight conflict between the car-
rier’s version of the facts and that of the
patron. The carrier states that he gave the
stereotyped answer—that the paper had not
come yet. She says he told her that her
magazine case had been swept out. She
denies, however, that she ever said he told
her her paper was destroyed. She states
that after she had inquired at the office an
inspector called at her house with a pre-
pared statement, which she declined to sign
until he had drawn his pencil through the
statement that the carrier said newspapers
were being destroyed. The patron, therefore,
bears out the carrier in his denial of the
serious part of the charges against him. In
spite of this fact, however, the carrier re-
ceived his discharge.
OUR LEGAL BUREAU
35
Another earner was charged with not
delivering a letter, although informed by
the addressee personally on the day before
that she intended to move into the house to
which the letter was addressed. The facts
were that the carrier had not been so in-
formed by the addressee and since the
house was barred up when he passed it,
and there was a "to rent” sign on it, he
thought it was unoccupied. He returned
the letter to the office and marked it "not
at.” On the next trip he noticed that the
house was occupied, but by this time the
letter had been returned to the sender, who
had delivered it in person. On complaint
made, the carrier succeeded in getting all
the patrons involved to make statements
completely exonerating him. In spite of
this, however, because he had incurred the
enmity of the superintendent, he was
discharged.
Another carrier, one who had served two
years and had always had an excellent rating,
was charged with misdelivering a letter. It
appears that there were two firms within two
doors of each other on the same street, of
the same surname, and in the same line of
business. The charge was that he had de-
livered a letter intended for one of these
firms to the other. The carrier went to both
firms, ascertained that the delivery had been
made by a substitute and- not by him, and
obtained from the proper addressee a letter
to the postmaster stating the facts. The
charges had stated that such misdelivery had
been a common occurrence. The letter he
obtained denied this explicitly, and other-
wise completely exonerated him. He was
discharged.
Another man had for years served a diffi-
cult four-trip business route. He was trans-
ferred to a two-trip residential route.
Shortly after taking up his new duties he
received a letter charging him with omitting
to pull his magazine case. The letter further
stated that he had been reminded of the
magazine case just before starting out on
several occasions. In his answer the carrier
explained that it was because on his former
route lie had had no special magazine case
to pull that he had found difficulty in getting
accustomed to pulling it on the new route.
The statement that he had been reminded of
it he denied, except that he admitted that
the customary bell to warn the carriers to
start was rung. This answer was seen by
the attorney for the association before it
was sent. The superintendent of mails
stated to the attorney that this carrier had
made no explanation of his omission except
that he "had forgot;” and that he had not
denied being reminded.
The feeling among the remaining carriers
is that they are likely to go at any time.
Despairing of being able to hold their posi-
tions, many resign as soon as charges are
preferred against them.
Three carriers found in their mail one
morning letters addressed to numbers which
did not represent houses. One letter was
addressed to No. 225 -------- Street. There
was no No. 225, but as No. 223 was a board-
ing house, the carrier resolved to try it there.
He left it in his case. Another letter was
addressed to No. 280 -------- Street. There
was no No. 280, but as a person of the
same name as the addressee lived at No.
.221, the carrier felt justified in casing the
letter with the object of getting permission
to try it at No. 221. On their return from
their trip the three were searched by post-
office inspectors, under the direction of the
superintendent. It appeared tha£ the letters
had been decoy letters. The men’s state-
ments were taken down by a stenographer
and they were charged with putting the let-
ters in their cases with the object of later
converting them to their own use. They
were reminded of an order which required
carriers to mark up all mail intended for
other routes and return it to the distributors
before leaving the office. They pointed out
that these letters had been addressed to
streets on their routes and were obviously
not intended for points on any other routes.
One of the carriers on being told that he
was suspended gave up and resigned.
Another did not do so. Later he received
charges, as a result of which he will doubt-
less be discharged.
Another case involved a square conflict
of testimony between a clerk and the assist-
ant superintendent as to verbal instruc-
tions given by the latter to the former. The
charge was that the clerk refused to obey
the assistant superintendent’s order to put
some official mail, which was undelivered, on
the parcels-post table to be taken out. His
answer stated that his instructions were to
tie the mail up and leave it on his desk,
which he had done. He further stated that
when some days later he noticed that it
was still on his desk, he asked the assistant
superintendent about it and that he said he
36
THE CRISIS
would attend to it. No other charges were
made against this clerk. He resigned, con-
vinced that he was doomed.
The postoffice officials are frank to say
that it won’t do in the South for colored
and white clerks to work side by side. No
pretense is being made of denying that, so
far as the clerks are concerned; the colored
employees are being eliminated as fast as
possible.
Two clerks were so efficient in their work
that no charges could be made against them.
One of these men slated to the attorney that
on several nights the labels on his mail sacks
had been changed in an effort to cause him
to make mistakes; that he learned of this
in time to get used to the new order. He
further stated that a few days later the
superintendent of mails ordered him to make
out an application for a transfer to a car-
rier’s position, that he had made no request
for such transfer, but complied; that he was
put on a heavy business and residence route;
that the former carrier went with him only
one day; that on the second day there was
a blinding‘snowstorm, as a result of which
he was unable to make more than one de-
livery; and that, since the superintendent of
carriers refused to give him help unless he
paid for it, and he declined to accept help
under such terms; he resigned in three days.
The story of the other clerk referred to
is to the following effect: He was the only
surviving colored clerk in the mailing de-
partment, with the exception of one who
worked all night, when one morning the
superintendent ordered him to make out an
application for transfer. He protested, but
to no avail. Thereafter his experience was
similar to that of the other man. His
resignation, however, was caused largely by
his becoming sick as a result of the un-
accustomed work during the snowstorm. A
statement made by the superintendent of
mails to the attorney that these two men
voluntarily made application for transfer
requires no further comment.
Those having the appointment and dis-
missal of employees in the classified service
can exercise a wide discretion. They may
not appoint or discharge for political or
religious reasons and all discharges must
be for cause to promote the efficiency of the
service. Beyond this the law does little more
than govern the procedure. In form the
Atlanta dismissals have apparently com-
plied with the regulations.
No relief may be looked for from the
department at Washington, which is entirely
Southern in its makeup. The same may be
said of the civil-service commission. The
work of ridding the classified service of its
colored members goes on and apparently will
not be checked till public opinion can be
brought to bear and a complete investiga-
tion had by persons who are unprejudiced
and whose only object shall be to see that
justice is done.
THE “CRISIS”
By William Pickens.
HTHOU quiv’ring tongue of fire!
A Bring to our land a Pentecost,
The hearts of men inspire
To gain once more the freedom they have
lost.
And fire with pristine courage sire and son,
Burn on.
Thou flaring sheet of flame!
Burn like a startling comet high,
Forewarning in God’s name
And writing truth on our deceptive sky
Whose quiet aspect has another mien
Unseen.
Thou whetted sword of truth!
Thou brandished sword makes tyrants
shake,
But stalwart men and youth
From the oppressed are rising up to
break
The bonds of bondage and the bars of caste.
At last.
Thou freedom’s clarion call!
Wake the oppressed, ring in their ears,
Call them to rally all
As one, unite their strength, shake off
their fears,
And fight till freedom’s battles all are won—
Call on!
Thou mighty “still, small voice!”
Speak on till thou art clearly heard!
Let the oppressed rejoice
And the oppressor tremble at thy word,
Until the truth is known and justice done
Speak on!
R. H. RUTHERFORD
Treasurer
R. W. BROWN
President
S. W. RUTHERFORD
Secretary
THE NATIONAL BENEFIT ASSOCIATION
HE National Benefit Associa-
tion was incorporated at
Washington, D. C., in ISOS,
for the purpose of insuring
its policy holders for bene-
fits in cases of disability,
accident or death. The
organization was established with a capital
of $5 in a small office, cheaply furnished,
with certain of the officers serving also as
agents, clerks and janitor. The success of
the association is even more remarkable for
being established at a time when financial
depression in this country was great on
account of the Spanish-Ameriean War, just
closing. For several years a war tax was
exacted of the association and business suf-
fered greatly. In spite of this, during the
next year, 1S99, 995 members were written
for the amount of $33,000.
Because of the failure to find a reputable
bonding company that would bond the
colored agents, each agent is required to pay
his own bond. Four per cent, interest is
paid on the bonds by the company and
agents may draw the entire amount when
they cease to work for the association. These
agents have written policies in 215,000
homes.
Three forms of policies are issued: Sick
and accident, straight life and endowment:
persons from one to sixty years are insur-
able. Last year $45,504.41 was paid in
health and accident policies There is a
clause in the health and accident policies
providing for permanent disability, for the
benefit of consumptives, paralytics, etc. In
case of total disability the insured is released
from further premium payments and is
allowed a lump sum equivalent to the face
value of the policy.
In 1902 a difficulty arose with the estab-
lishment of an insurance department at
Washington. The association was compelled
to make out a sworn report before securing
license to do business, and this was difficult
because it had not been customary and the
officers knew very little about insurance
departmental rules and regulations. How-
ever, the license was secured and in 1904
the first payment was made upon a five-
story office building. But again the com-
pany suffered through the failure of a
colored bank. This bank occupied offices in
the same buildiug with the association and
had contracted to buy the building. The
failure to do this was, of course, a great
loss and, in addition, $5,000 had been de-
posited in the bank by the association.
Greater still, perhaps, was the psychological
effect the failure had upon the people who
seemed to feel that the bank and the asso-
38
THE CRISIS
ciation must have been connected, since the
two offices were so near together. One
thousand policy holders withdrew their sup-
port, but by good management the final
payment on the home office of more than
$10,000 was soon made. The company now
occupies three floors of this building, which
is illustrated here, and rents two.
All modern sanitary conveniences are
afforded; clerks are furnished lockers for
their clothing. The offices are kept well
ventilated and clean. Office hours are
from 8:30 a. m. to 5 p. m., and extra pay
is allowed for overtime. Vacations, with
salary in advance, are granted all clerks
and managers and each clerk is allowed an
hour off twice a month for shopping. A
rest room is provided. The clerks all work
harmoniously and loyally.
During the fifteen years of its life the
National Benefit Association has paid
dividends at 6 per cent, for nine years and at
15 per cent, for six years. Thirty clerks
are employed in the eight departments:
Executive, bookkeeping, correspondence with
its bureau of claims, city record, stock, policy
and supply. There are 700 agents giving
full or partial time to the work. More than
THE NATIONAL BENEFIT ASSOCIATION
39
$300,000 lias been paid in benefits and there
is $4,000,000 worth of insurance in force.
The receipts last year were $191,499.24, the
surplus earning of
$30,730.24 being an
increase of more than
$5,000 over last year’s
profits, and 22,052
members were written
for the amount of
$1,268,42S.	The re-
sources of the company
amount to $250,000, of
which $114,000 is in-
vested in railroad,
municipal, United
States and public-
sendee corporation
bonds; $50,000 is on
deposit jointly with the
District of Columbia
and the State of Mary-
land for the protection
of property holders.
Sick and benefit claims
are paid promptly. The
record for last year was
no litigation over a
single claim. This year
a new scheme has been
adopted which will un-
doubtedly stimulate the
interest and efforts of
the employees. This is profit sharing, by
which each employee, according to his
length of service, receives a certain per
cent, of the earnings of the company.
The National Benefit Association owns,
besides the Washington building, which has
been, remodeled at a cost of $12,000, a large
three-story building in
Philadelphia. The
spacious ground floor of
this building is used for
the offices of the associa-
tion and the two upper
floors are fitted up as
modern flats and rented.
The business of this
company is earned on
in Maryland, Delaware,
Pennsylvania, New
Jersey, Rhode Island
and the District of
Columbia. The direc-
tors and officers, who
are elected directly
by the stockholders, are
now striving to make
the company an old line
legal reserve insurance
company with a paid-up
capital of $200,000 and
qualified to operate in
all the States, issuing
all forms of life-
insurance policies for
any amount desired. At
present this company
is operated in more
States than any other Negro insurance com-
pany, and in each State it is examined and
its agents are licensed by the insurance
departments.
SOME FRANK FACTS
"The Human Way." Addross on race prob-
lems at the Southern Sociological Congress,
Atlanta, 1913. Edited by James E. McCulloch.
146 pages.
HE CRISIS has before
called attention to the
extraordinary frankness of
Southern white men in the
Southern Sociological
Congress held in Atlanta
in 1913. Many of these
papers have been published in a pam-
phlet called “The Human Way,” and
with the sure American instinct for goings
wrong on the race problem this book has
been systematically ignored by the nation;
yet it is in its way epochmaking; its mes-
sage is tremendous. Here are men and
young men, Southern whites, saying precisely
what The Crisis has been trying to say.
How about the church and the Negro ?
Charles Brough, of Arkansas, says:
“With reference to the religious con-
tributions to the betterment of the Negro,
it may be said that our churches have been
pursuing a penny wise and pound foolish
economy. The Presbyterians last year gave
an average of three postage stamps per mem-
ber to the work. The Methodists averaged
less than the price of a cheap soda water.”
How about the Negro common school in the
South? W. 0. Scroggs, of Louisiana, says:
“It is a matter of common knowledge that
in the division of the school fund the Negro
is not fairly treated.”
What about parks and libraries? The
same Mr. Scroggs says:
“Inequalities like those in the administra-
tion of the school fund are even more notice-
able in the case of such municipal improve-
ments as parks, driveways and public
libraries.”
Does the South want intelligent colored
farmers? J. H. De Loach, of Georgia, says:
“In most of the Southern States farmers'
institutes are authorized and held in dif-
ferent parts of the several States for the dis-
cussion of experts of local farm problems,
such as fertilizers, field crops, crop rotation,
farm management and the like. These
institutes are intended mostly, if not alto-
* gether, for white farmers. The Negroes, as
a general thing, are not considered.”
Is the “Jim Crow” car a decent place of
accommodation? W. O. Scroggs, of Louisi-
ana, sayp:
“The Negro does not get equal accom-
modations with the whites on railway pas- .
senger trains, although he pays the same
fare.”
Is the reason of all' this discrimination
because the Negro does not share the public
tax burden? Mr. Scroggs adds:
“The taxpayer is not always the tax-
bearer. The white man pays many taxes
whose burdens rest upon the black man's
shoulders either wholly or in part. Whether
the man who hands the money to the tax
collector is white or black is of minor im-
portance. That our taxes as at present
administered fall most heavily on those
least able to pay is everywhere recognized,
and from this it must follow that the Negro,
in proportion to his ability, bears a greater
burden from taxation than does the white
man.” -
Does the South disfranchise simply the
ignorant and unfit? Listen to testimony
from Louisiana:
“Intelligent and highly respectable
Negroes are sometimes disfranchised for no
other reason than that of color. • • •
There are those who would disfranchise
every Negro, regardless of his fitness for
the ballot, and their name is legion. Sup-
ported by such sentiment in their com-
munity, registration officers have even gone
to the extreme of rejecting Negro college
graduates while registering the most de-
graded of white men.”
Does the Negro get justice in the courts?
Charles Brough, of Arkansas, says:
“It is, indeed, a travesty on Anglo-
Saxon jurisprudence to send a‘ Negro to
the penitentiary for a term of eighteen years
for selling- a gallon of whiskey in viola-
tion of law and at the same time allow
scores of white murderers to go unpunished,
as was recently stated to be a fact by the
governor of a Southern State.”
J.	H. De Loach, of Georgia, adds:
“Only a few days ago I was discussing
the Negro problem with a distinguished
physician of one of our larger cities in
SOME FRANK FACTS
41
Georgia, and I could not but take careful
note of his remark that ‘in our courts the
Negro population never gets justice/
Whether this is literally true or not, it is
generally true.”
W. 0. Scroggs, of Louisiana, adds:
“That' the proportion of convictions is
greater and the terms of sentence longer for
Negroes than for whites has been urged by
Southern governors in justification of their
extensive use of the pardoning power.”
Is Negro crime worse than white crime?
This is the testimony of a Southern white
woman, Mrs. J. D. Hammond, of Georgia:
“Let it be said also that the conditions of
vice and crime found among any part of
the Negro race may be immediately matched
among the criminal element of the white
race.”
Is lynching always or usually for the
“usual crime”? W. O. Scroggs, of Louisi-
ana, thinks not:
“The only ground upon which they defend
lynching is that it furnishes protection to
Southern women, but our statistics show that
75 per cent, of our lynchings are for crimes
other than the one they are supposed to
avenge.”
Is mob law defensible? W. D. Weather-
ford, of Tennessee, says:
“We need a new crusade of a ‘Peter the
Hermit/ not to rescue an empty tomb from
the hands of an infidel power, but a crusade
to wrench the helpless and belated from the
hands of a maddened mob which puts money
above man, which puts prejudice above per-
sons, which puts license instead of law,
which uses immoral mobs to uphold morality,
which despises and degrades all personality
in a so-called attempt to vindicate the
wrong of a single person.”
Does the Southern white man know the
Negro? Mrs. Hammond, of Georgia, says:
“One of the unfortunate things about the
relation of the two races is that since
emancipation, for the last fifty years, the
better element of our white people have had
no point of contact with the -better element
of the Negroes.”
What are we going to do about this?
W. D. Weatherford, of Tennessee, suggests:
“The same type of agency which can im-
prove the conditions for the white people can
improve the conditions of life for the Negro.
Humanity is humanity, whether the color be
black or white, and I know no fiat of God
that makes white any more valuable as a color
or any easier to deal with than black.”
Is the new relationship simply to be that
of master and servant? James H. Dillard,
of Virginia, says not:
“We Southern white people now realize
two facts in regard to the relationship of
the races. First, we realize that the old
relationship, so frequently typified in the
affection of the black mammy, is one that
must pass. Second, we realize that the spirit
of no relationship, no responsibility, no co-
operation, is impossible. We see that our
whole public welfare requires the education
and improvement of the colored people in our
midst.”
Has religion anything to do with the race
problem? E. C. Branson, of Georgia, says:
“The Negro problem will be settled on no
plane lower than the Ten Commandments and
the Sermon on the Mount.”
Here is the testimony. If it does not
sound like the usual sweet and pleasant talk
on Southern conditions that is handed the
average philanthropist, who is wrong about
the South, the authors of “The Human Way”
or other folks? Moreover, what does the
Southern colored man think about the
situation?
This is what one colored man, Dr. C. V.
Roman, of Tennessee, said to the Sociological
Congress:
“Justice and liberty are for all or for
none. • • •
“There has arisen in the South a type of
politician that proposes to make the white
people happy by making the Negroes
unhappy. • • •
“The races know and believe in the vices
of each other, but do not know or believe in
the virtues of each other. * • •
“A belief that the Negro is unable to
defend himself often makes white people
tyrannical. • • *
“The doctrinaire ebullitions of the student
often become slogans of war among the
ignorant. * • •
“Business intercourse is hampered and
friction needlessly engendered by a racial
chauvinism that leads many white people to
disregard the ordinary amenities of civiliza-
tion in their dealings with Negroes. * * *
“Interstate travel is a veritable night-
mare—nothing to eat, nowhere to sleep, im-
perfect toilet accommodations and a change
of cars every few hours.”
THE BURDEN
AO
Miss Frances Blascoer has published the
result of her investigation of the women and
girls in Honolulu, in a pamphlet of one
hundred pages.
Frankfort, Ky., has published a bulletin The annual number of immigrants to the
of household ethics and industrial training United States from Africa is said to exceed
in the colored schools by C. L. Timberlake. 6,000.
The seventh annual report of the .Church
Institute for Negroes is a thoughtful docu-
ment well worth reading.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
43
Homes in Long Island! Few people realize the wonderful possibilities of Long Island property, the rapid growth of that section of the city and its wonderful future. WE ARE SELLING GOOD HOMES IN CORONA, with all , improvements, only five cents carfare to New York. Corona is in the very center of Greater New York, and in a few months will be reached by the rapid transit lines of Manhattan, giving to the people of that section of the city a five-cent carfare to any section of Manhattan. The only place within thirty minutes of Times Square, Grand | Central Station or the Pennsylvania Station, where the man of small ! means can get a modern home with all improvements at a moderate cost. We would be glad to have you visit Corona at our expense. Corona is one of the highest elevations in New York City, has an excellent car service, good schools, excellent water supply and the best place in all New York for children. For full particulars as to price and terms address L. S. REED & COMPANY 142 Hunter Avenue -	-- -- -- - Long Island City Some choice investment lots for $50 on reasonable terms	
	
$60 A WEEK and EXPENSES
That'B the money you can get this yaar. I mean It. 1 want County Sales Managers
Quick, men or women who believe In the square deal, who will go Into partnership with
mo. No capital or experience needed. My folding Bath Tub has taken the country by
storm. Solves the bathing problem. No plumbing, no water works required. Full length
bath in any room. Folds In small roll, handy as an umbrella. I tell you It's great 1
GREAT! Rivals $100 bath room. Now listen! I want YOU to handle your county.
I'Ll furnish demonstrating tub free. I'm posltlvo—absolutely certain—you can get bigger
monoy In a week with me than you ever made In a month before—I KNOW IT!
TWO SALES A DAY—$300 A MONTH
That's what you get—every month. Needed In every home, badly wanted, eagerly bought.
Modern bathing facilities for all the people. Take the orders right and left. Quick
sales Immense profltA. Look at these men. Kunkle. Ohio, received $340 first week;
Mathias Florida $120 In two days;• Corrigan. New York. $114 In 60 hours; Newton.
California. $60 in three days. You can do as well. TWO
SALES A DAY MEANS $300 A MONTH. The work Is very
easy, pleasant, permanent, fascinating. It means a business
of your own.
I grant credit, furnish sample, help you out. back you up—
don't doubt, don't heaitato, don’t hold back. You cannot
lose. My other men are building homes, bank accounts, oo
can you. Act. then, quick. SENT) NO MONEY. Just name
on penny post card for free tub offer. Hustle!
H. S. Robinson, Pres
22 Factories Building
Toledo, O.
DEMONSTRATING
TUB FREE
Canadian Address: WalkervUle, Ont., Canada.
Mention The Crisis
44
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
Cartoons
You have seen many
of other people, but
did you ever see one
of yourself or friend?
Send photo and 25
cents in coin
Photo returned.
CHAS. W. ASKEW
Sheridan, Wyoming
$90 A WEEK-COLD CASH!
That’b what I want to pay you every week this year. I want hustlers everywhere to act
as my Special Sales Representatives, advertising, selling and appointing agents fon the far-famed
mechanical marvel—the R-B COMBINATION VACUUM SWEEPER. It’s the one big 1914
selling success. An amazing, new invention. Different in construction. Revolutionizes house-
cleaning. Just what the housewife has been waiting for. Positively astounding the way this
Combination Cleaner takes the dirt from beneath and right through the carpet. Sweeps up
thread, lint, dust, etc. Three bellows; rubber-tired wheels; friction rollers; adjustable brush.
Lightens work; kills worry; conquers dirt. Makes carpet look like new. No need to take off
floor; no need to beat on line. Child can operate to perfection. Saves carpet wear and tear;
saves tired, aching backs and arms. No labor, no effort, no drudgery. Push back and forth
across floor like old-style carpet sweeper. Combines the work of high-priced $100 electric
vacuum cleaner and highest-grade carpet sweeper—all in one. Twenty million homes are just
waiting for this absolutely new, money-back guaranteed invention.
Combination Vacuum Cleaner and Carpet Sweeper
Look! Tremendous Profits—100 per cent.! A Monster
Money Maker! Gainer, W. Va., made $12 first hour. Kirch,
Pa", “Rush 12. Can sell 20 a day.” So it
goes. Sensational Sales Success. Do you
wonder? Think what a blessing to every
home; think of the big, tremendous never-
ending volume of business you should got.
Think of the profits! We give you valu-
able territory FREE. We protect you.
We back you up. assist you, show you
how to win. Wo simply make you succeed.
Just two sales daily means §54 a week
clean profit. “Dead easy,” our agents
say. You can do it sure.
Spend One Cent—That’s All!
Just spend a penny for a postcard.
Write me. Tell me you want the Job.
Don’t let anything—lack of capital or in-
experience—hold you back. Get these big,
bountiful profits. Start now. Write me.
A. BUTLER
i Manager. 190 Factories Bldg.. Toledo. O.
Mention The Crisis
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
45
cTka	Art of Printing		
AS EXEMPLIFIED IN OUR WORK EMBODIES THE FOL- LOWING POINTS OF MERIT:			
	1. Stationery	(a)	Neat (b)	Attractive (c)	Quality	
	2. Form	(a)	Polite (b)	Business _ (c) Social	
	3. Workmanship -	(a)	Artistic (b)	Correct (c)	Prompt	
	We Print THE CRISIS		
ROBERT N. WOOD, Printing and 202 EAST 99th STREET	Telephone: Lenox 6667			Engraving NEW YORK
A Life of
NORRIS WRIGHT GUNEY
By
MAUD GUNEY HARE
(His daughter)
Would you like to read about a red-blooded man who was
one of the great leaders of Negro Americans? Would you like
to inspire your children with the life of this “Tribune of the
Black People”?
8vo; 250 pages. Postpaid, $1.50. Best terms to agents.
THE CRISIS PUBLISHING COMPANY
70 FIFTH AVENUE	NEW YORK CITY
Mention Thb Crisis
46
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
Atlanta University
Studies of the
Negro Problems
17 Monographs	Sold Separately
Address:
ATLANTA UNIVERSITY CONFERENCE
Atlanta University, Atlanta, Ga.
The Curse of Race Prejudice
By James F. Morton, Jr., A. M.
An aggressive exposure by on Anglo-Saxon
champion of equal rights. Startling facts and crush-
ing arguments. Fascinating reading. A necessity
for clear understanding and up-to-date propaganda.
Belongs in the library of every friend of social
justice. Price 25 cents. Send orders to
JAMES F. MORTON, JR.
244 West 143d Street -	New York, N. Y.
“HEAVEN AND HELL ”
Swedenborg’s great work; 400 pages; 15 cents,
postpaid. Pastor Landonberger, Windsor Place,
St. Louis, Mo.
HAZEL
The Story of a Little Colored Girl
By MARY WHITE OVINGTON
Author of “Half a Man”
Price $1.00 net. Postage prepaid, $1.08. For
sale through our agents and at The Crisis
office, as well as at leading book stores.
CRISIS PUBLISHING COMPANY
70 FIFTH AVENUE	NEW YORK CITY
BIG OF FEU
VERY SPEOSAU
rOU%Lbc surprised
when you get our
offer of a suit of
swellcst style mid won-
der—"How can
they do ill” It
is all explained
i n a personal
letter to you.
ii,i |R!jrM New, liberal
li:! Sill Ifi?TI plan. No trouble
— no expense.
! Every garment
made to meas-
ure. You pick"
i the style aud
fabric. Ex proas
prepaid —on every-
thing — not a cent
to pay. Agents coin-
ing money. Sond no
money but write
quick wliilo special
offor lasts, for Big
Wonderful Offer
, ond hoavy sample
-	outfit-all FREE!
& hob ©(pH ©si on W©©fleiB Hliflls
EBopt- 551*	-------
GMBGAGO. iLL.
SPLENDID BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY
- FOR SALE—Small job printing plant:	Two
presses, motor cutter und other equipment com-
plete. Splendid location, good business. Established
Bix yoarB. Sell for about half inventory price.
Good will to go with sale. Snap for practical
printer. Owner has other interests. Address
TFTF. HULL COMPANY
Mention The Crisis
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
47
Masterpieces of
Negro Eloquence
Edited by Alice Moore Dunbar.
The one volume that contains the best
speeches of fifty-one of the ablest Negroes of
the United States, England, Africa and France,
from 1818 to 1913. The wonderful eloquence
of the most powerful Negro men and women
of the world is contained in this book. Nothing
more interesting and inspiring has ever been
written.
If you would know of the history of the
race, appreciate the sacrifice for principle,
understand the struggle for liberty, and prop-
erly value the oratorical achievement of the
Negro, you should place this book in your
library.
The ‘‘Masterpieces of Negro Eloquence” will take you back to 1818, when
Prince Saunders in his fascinating style eloquently pleaded for the abolition of
slavery. It will give you the speech of Henry Highland Garnett, the first Negro
ever asked to deliver a sermon in the United States House of Representatives;
the speech of Frederick Douglass, who in 1852 with unexcelled eloquence
demanded at Rochester to know, “What to the Slave Is the Fourth of July?';
the speech that made Booker Washington famous; an estimate of Toussaint
L’Ouverture, by James McCune Smith, that ranks with Wendell Phillips’s famous
eulogy'; Charles M. Langston’s defiance of the Fugitive Slave Law, delivered in
1859; Judge Ruffin’s famous eulogy of Crispus Attucks, a speech that should be
read by every Negro boy and girl.
These are but a few of. the gems culled at random from this great book.
The best of our present generation is well represented.
This is a book that is a library, a reference book and an historical work,
an indispensable addition to the library of ever/ intelligent Negro. A book that
shows in the best manner the best that the Negro has done.
It is carefully edited, well printed and thoroughly indexed, bound /
in red and green silk cloth binding, 512 pages, gold top, uncut pages. / crisis Coupon
We want every reader of The Crisis to have a copy of this /
book/ We have set aside 50,000 copies which we are going to sell / CUT 0UT and
to The Crisis readers by allowing them to pay 50 cents down f	maid now.
and 50 cents monthly for four months.	/ The ,52U?»MS
• Co., 509 No. 4th St.,
Do not delay; sit down immediately, clip this coupon *	Harrisburg. Pa.
,	, .	. , rr\	j	... ,	* Enclosed find 50c., for
and send it to us with 50 cents, and a copy will be sent / which send me a copv of
you by return mail.	/ ‘"Fhe Ma,s,ten>ieces.of Negro
J j	f Eloquence. I 'promise to pay
/ 50c. each month until $2.50 is
The Douglass Publishing Company / repm,1n InS Un«u b°h°.k
HARRISBURG, PA.	/ of $2 50 18 po‘d
/ Name ____________________‘__
Address _
Mention The Crisis
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
48
SCHOOL OF BEAUTY CULTURE AND MASK DRESSING
KaImj’i H«ir Dmilnf,	Qrower. Scalp Tonic and Face Lotion have no oqnai.
Guaranteed and or Food and Drug Act, Juno 30, 1906.
Price, 60c cock.
KELSEY’S
Telephone, Momlngxldo 8162
143 West 131st St.
NEW YOBS
Manicuring, Shampooing, Hair Dressing, . Marcel Wit-
lng, Facial and Body Massage, Hair Making, Chiropody,
etc., scientifically taught. Unlimited practice in parlor
day and night. Pupils • taught at home, if desired.
Diplomas. Special Summer Course, 37.60 up. 8eod fer
booklet. Mine. A. Carter Kelsey, Gon’l Instr.; Dr. Samuel
A. Kelsey, Chiropodist, President and Oen’l Manager.
Al',lll?PC The new efficiency era calls
*	for the modern way of
selecting teachers, through a live agency that
furnishes the connecting medium in a business way,
saves time of school officials, relieves teachers of
the embarrassment of job hunting and covers the
whole country.	,
We have had calls for teachers from Alabama.
Arkansas, Delaware. District of Columbia, Florida.
Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland,
Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, Oklahoma,
Rhode Island, 8outh Carolina, Tennessee, Texas,
Virginia and West Virginia.
Our list of teachers covers even a wider territory.
THE MUTUAL TEACHERS' AGENCY
1335 T Street, N. W.	Washington, D. C.
Only
$65.00
No. 24 Southern Boggy
Highest Grade
A Value Unequaled. Sold on $1.00
Profit Margin	prom
Factory to User
Write for prices
and other styles.
Send for catalogue.
C. R. PATTERSON
A. SONS.
Greenfield, Ohio
Largest Negro Carriage concern In the United States.
Start a Mail Order Business and Make Money
You can operate in your own home during spare
time. The parcel post has opened up the doors of
opportunity to YOU. ' Others are making $20 to
$500 a week. Why can't you f By our method
you can Btart with $5 and up. We offer you thirty
live, money-making mail order plans. You can
make 95 cents profit on every dollar order. We
furnish circulars, printed matter and place your
advertising at lowest rates. Send 10 cents for
complete outfit. Do it to-day—Now!
MAIL DEALERS WHOLESALE HOUSE
517 Dearborn Street	Chicago, I1L
Buy Real Estate in “Twin Cities.”
You can double your money by an investment of
city and suburban property in and around
Minneapolis. I have some good investments in new
towns in Western Canada. Communicate with
me.
B. MAXEY McDEW
80? Sykes Block	Minneapolis, Minn
FREE TO EVERY WOMAN
who writes, one copy of “Ladies’ Cyclopedia of
Health and Beauty.’’ This book contains informa-
tion indispensable to every woman ; on every subject
women are most interested in. Tells how to
cultivate health und beauty ; what to use and how to
use it.
ALEXANDER SPECIALTY CO.
494 Highland Avenue
WANTED
500 Negro families (farmers preferred)
to settle on FREE Government Lands in
Chaves County, New Mexico. Blackdom is
a Negro colony. Fertile soil, ideal climate.
No “Jim Crow’* Laws. For information
write
JAS. HAROLD COLEMAN •
Blackdom...New Mexico
$25.00 PER WEEK
may be made in commissions by parties handlinf
“History of Negro Soldiers in Spanish-American
War’’ combined with “History of the Negro Race.
400 pages, 50 illustrations. Price $1.25 net.
Address:	E. A. JOHNSON
164 Nassau Street -	-	-	-	? New York
REGALIA
A Race Enterprite
Manufacturing Badges,
Banners and Supplies
for all Fraternal and
Church Societies. Cata-
logue upon request.
CENTRAL REGALIA CO
Jos. L. Jones, Pres.
N. E. Cor. 8th and Plum SU.
Cincinnati, Ohio
If You Plan to Visit
New York This Summer
For study, sightseeing or pleasure
and desire quiet, respectable accom-
modations with the best private
families, write the Housing Bureau
of the National League on Urban
Conditions Among Negroes, at 127
W. 135th Street, New York.
Our Service Is Absolutely FREE
Passaic, N. J.
Mention The Crisis
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
49
MILES M. WEBB
School of Practical Photography
All branches of photography taught.
Terms reasonable. Service efficient. Three
courses:	Amateur, intermediate, profes-
sional. Register now.
3519 So. State Street	Chicago, 111.
Telephone Douglass 6688
Grand Supreme
Governor
The Loyal Knights and
Ladies of Malachites
is incorporated under the
laws of the District of Col-
umbia. Its object is to com-
bine the Negroes of the
world for their mutual ad-
vancement along indus-
trial and commercial lines.
It also stands for the full
enjoyment by the Negro of
his civil and political rights.
This movement is interna-
tional in its scope; we have
lodges not only in the United States but in
Jamaica, B. W. I.; Colon, Bocas del Toro, Pan-
ama (Canal Zone) and Costa Rica. It is a dark
day for the Negro and he must come together.
Race movements have failed because our peo-
ple were told that by contributing thereto the
race only would be benefited, but no tangible
individaal benefits were offered. By our plan
the member pays 35c. per month in the Asso-
ciation and receives $4.00 per week sick ben-
efits and $100 at death. We not only look
after the race but each individual member as
well. A bigeonvention issoon to beheld here.
We want a lodge in every village, hamlet and
tpwn and a delegate to be sent to this conven-
tion. Organizers wanted everywhere. For
full particulars, write
KNIGHTS OF MALACHITES
Lilli You St. N. W. Washington, D. C. A
AGENTS WANTED—Big seller. $3 to $5 per
day. Costs you from 10 to 20 cents; sells for
35 cents and up. Sample free for the askiDg.
G. A. ALBURY & CO.. P. O. Box 414, Bristol, Pa.
BOY AND 6IRL SUIT FREE
SPRING and SUMMER
For styles and service these
becoming suits can hardly be
equalled, and for value they
are unapproached. Made of
best material in the latest
colors and newest designs,
they are free for selling one
package of Artistic !Negro
Post Cards in colors. Large
assortment of real art and
other beautiful cards. Send us 1G cents in stamps
to help pay postage, we will send you a package
of post cards to sell. Here is what one agent says:
“I got your cards this morning, and I sold them
out before 6 P. M. Every-
body I sold to says they were
beautiful. I could have sold
more.” Another agent says:
“I received my suit you sent
me and it is fine. I am well
pleased. Mama says she
likes it too.*’
J.	GRIFFITH ART CO.
36-38 Beekman Street
NEW YORK
As nsnr.l we are ahead of thereat. Ahead In style
—ahead In quality—ahead In designs—ahead In price
and ahead In terms. Sofarahead .
that you will be behind the times
If you d ' not wear one of our
new, noboy suits this spring.
Get One for Nothing
Our new scheme Is a dandy.
You get your suit without one f
cent of coat. The nobbiest, most
up-to-date suit a man ever put
on bis back. Cnt right up to the
minute with style aUcklng out
all over It. Make
S10tO*15D£y
Oar plan makes this easy.
Simply send us a postal and we
will exrlaln It ali and send you
the FREE stlf-measurlng blanks,
samp) s, fashion chart, etc. We
P^pay express on everything.
^•rlte us now.
PARAGON TAILORING CO.
Dept. 55|	Chicago
AUTU M A I I U and op. Revolvers. $1.75 and ap.
Ask yoar dsalsr or sand for psrtic-
olars. FRED BIFFAQ & C0..180 N.
Dearborn St., Chicago. Dipt. 102
PISTOLS
WANTED—Colored carriage smiths,
woodworkers, trimmers and paint**
ers. Sober, experienced men only.
Address: THE CRISIS, 7a Fifth
Avenue, New York City.
Mention Tub Crisis
50
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
LEGAL DIRECTORY
Residence 25-16 Michigan	Office Phone
Bell Phone E-2161	.	Home 58 Main
C. H. CALLOWAY
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Notary Public
117 W. 6th Street	Kansas City, Mo.
Telephones:	{	Antral	c104.W
HARRY E. DAVIS
Attorney-at-Law	Notary Public
1607 Williamson Building -	-	- Cleveland, O.
Office L. D. Telephone 3297 Market
Residence L. D. Telephone 5277-M Market
GEORGE A. DOUGLAS
Counselor-at-Law
Rooms 613-614, Metropolitan Building
113 Market St., Cor. Washington, Newark, N. J.
General Practice	Notary Public
WILLIAM R. MORRIS
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
1020 Metropolitan Life Building
Minneapolis.........................Minn.
BROWN S. SMITH
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Officos:	Suite 610, Sykes Block
Minneapolis..........................Minn.
GEORGE W. MITCHELL
Attorney-at-Law
908 Walnut Street
Philadelphia..........................Pa.
Tel. 5137 Fort Hill	Cable Address. Kpbon
EDGAR P. BENJAMIN
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
34 School Street..............Boston, Mass.
Telephone Connection
W. Ashhie Hawkins	George W. F. McMechen
HAWKINS & McMECHEN
Attorneys-at-Law
21 East Saratoga Street -	-	- Baltimore, Md.
Phones: Office, Bell 4059; New 420-M
Residence, New 733-A
THOS. E. GREENE, JR.
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Notary Public
Maloney Block .... Youngstown, Ohio
William H. Austin	Edmund O. Austin
Law Offices of
AUSTIN & AUSTIN
St. Paul Building, 220 Broadway, New York
Suite 7—II, I. J. K
Telephones: 7100, 5365. 5366 Cortlandt
B. F. BOOTH
Attorney-at-Law
67 N. Second Strcot
Memphis.............................- Tenn
THOMAS W. HOLMES
Attorney-at-Law
4 3 Vz Decatur Street	Atlanta, Georgia
PERSONAL CARDS
Telephone 5277 Morningside
DR. GERTRUDE E. CURTIS
Surgeon Dentist
188 W. 135th Street -	New York City
Telephone Connection
R. W. FEARING
Electrician
Contracting, Repairing, Motors, Electric and
Gas Fixtures
Electrician recent Emancipation Exposition in
New York
85 Marion Street -	Brooklyn, N. Y.
MME. FANNIE BELLE DE KNIGHT
Dramatic und Dialect Render. Engagements bo
licited. Students given special training in the
Dolsarlc Method. Instruction also given in Dialect.
English Grammar and Rhetoric.
Terms Reasonable.
Telephone Morningside 9045
Studio: 231 W. 13-lth St.	New York City
H. HENRY HARRIS
Architect
Corner 8th and Princess Streets
Wilmington -......................N. C.
WILLIAM L.	BELL
Architect	
138^4 Auburn Avenue	Atlanta, Ga.
	
J. E. ORMES
ACCOUNTANT
Audits	Systems
Business information by mail. Open for
engagements July and August
Box 25, Wilberforcc University
Wilbcrforce, O.
WANTED —Position as teacher by young
man of college training and teaching
experience. Position in high school or
college preferred.
Address: EDUCATION 9, % The Crisis
Mr. Alfred F.lis Du Bois. commercial
agent at Jcremic, Haiti, offers his services for
all kinds of business and exportation and
importation between Haiti and the United
States.
What Are Colored Men Doing in Business?
Read the COMMERCIAL COLLEGE
OUTLOOK—a Monthly Magazine
Published by Commercial College students
of Howard University, Washington, D. C.
Fifty Cents for School Year
Michael Jones, Editor-in-Chief
Mention Tirn Crisis
A Selected List of Books
02 G0 PRICE INCLUDES POSTAGE £0 E0
The Quest of the Silver Fleece. W. E. B. Du Bois..$1.50
House Behind the Cedars. Charles W. Chesnutt...... 1.65
Hazel. Mary White Ovington........................ 1.08
Autobiography of an ex-Colored Man. Anonymous..... 1.40
The Testing Fire. Alexander Corkey................ 1*35
Lyrics of Lowly Life. Paul Laurence Dunbar........ 1.40
Marrow of Tradition. Charles W. Chesnutt.......... 1-65
The Sport of the Gods. Paul Laurence Dunbar....... 1.65
Norris Wright Cuney. Maud Cuney Hare.............. 1.50
A Narrative of the Negro. Lelia Amos Pendleton.... 1.65
Souls of Black Folk. W. E. B. Du Bois............. 1.35
Race Adjustment. Kelly Miller..................... 2.15
History of the Negro. B. G. Brawley............... 1.35
Half a Man. Mary White Ovington................... 1.12
Mind of Primitive Man. Franz Boas................. 1.65
Aftermath of Slavery. William Sinclair............ 1.65
John Brown. W. E. B. Du Bois...................... 1.45
Facts of Reconstruction. John R. .Lynch........... 1.65
Story of the Negro. Booker T. Washington.......... 3.25
Masterpieces of Negro Eloquence.
Edited by Alice Moore Dunbar.................. 2.70
Flower o' the Peach. Percival Gibbon.............. 1.45
Tiie Colored Inventor. Henry E. Baker................15
A Child’s Story of Dunbar. Julia L. Henderson........25
A ddr ess
THE CRISIS
70 Fifth Avenue ------- New York City
CAPE MAY, N. J.
This magnificent hotel, located in the heart of the most beautiful seashore resort in the world;
replete with every modern improvement!, superlative in construction, appointments, service, and refined
patronage. Orchestra daily. Garage, bath houses, tennis, etc., on premises. Special attention given to
ladies and children. Send for booklet.	E. W. DALE, Owner.
Provident Hospital and Training School
for Colored Nurses
Aim: To keep its technic equal to the best
30th and Dearborn Sts., Chicago, III.
Founded 1891
The first training school for colored
nurses in this country, Freedman's
excepted.
Comprises a training school for
nurses, hospitnl, dispensary, and
thoroughly equipped children's depart-
ment; when funds are ample, post-
graduate work may be undertaken.
The hospital is open to all. The
races co-operate in the board of
trustees, in the medical staff and in
administration; the institution is the
only one of its kind in which a colored
man may act as interne.
Cost of buildings and equipment,
$100,000; free from debt. Endowment,
$50,000, contributed mostly by wills
made by colored men. Additional
endowment needed, $50,000.
The nurses’ course covers three
years; training and instruction given
by both races, according to the highest
modern standards.
Mention The Crisis
Vol. 8—No. 2
JUNE, 1914
Whole No. 44
ONE DOLLAR A YEAR
TEN CENTS A COPY
<The Life of Norris WVight Cuney
A Tribune of tbe Black People
By MAUD CUNEY HARE
(his daughter)
PRESS COMMENTS
From the “Sun,” New York City:
A biography that is interesting in
itself and that throws much light on
the politics of Texas and the South
for a quarter of a century is “Norris
Wright Cuney,” written by his
daughter, Maud Cuney Hare (The
Crisis Publishing Company, New
York). Mr. Cuney was a Republican
leader in Texas from the period of
reconstruction to the convention that
nominated Mr. McKinley; at one time
he was collector of the port of Galves-
ton. His daughter writes a stirring
tale of politics, showing her father’s
qualities as a leader. The little volume
is very attractive in its makeup.
From the “Journal,” Providence, R. I.:
Distinctly interesting is this biog-
raphy of a colored politician, written
by his daughter. * * * Throughout
his life he made a brave fight for
honesty and fair treatment for the
race to which his somewhat dark skin
made him belong; and his daughter
has continued the struggle. The story
of Mr. Cuney’s life shows him to have
been a singularly lovable as well as
forceful personality, and to have won
friends among both races by his ab-
solute sincerity. That he was also a
man of considerable ability will not
be questioned. As a human document
the volume makes a strong appeal.
From the “Transcript,” Boston, Mass.:
The loss of consideration suffered
by Southern black citizens since they
were counselled thus to let politics
alone, by Republicans as well as
Democrats, in the places of power at
Washington, is vividly brought to
mind by the volume just published by
Mrs. Maud Cuney Hare, of Jamaica
Plain. It is a life of her father, N.
Wright Cuney, a remarkable colored
man of substance, character and
brains, who, years before President
Harrison appointed him collector of
the port at Galveston, had been twice
elected alderman of the city, and had
served on its water commission, on
the aldermen’s finance committee and
in other posts of honor and responsi-
bility at the call of fellow-townsmen.
From the “A. M. E. Christian
Recorder,” Philadelphia, Pa.:
Mrs. Hare gives a very vivid pic-
ture of the part played by Mr. Cuney
in the Republican national conven-
tions, as national committeeman from
Texas and as collector of customs of
the port of Galveston. The book is
a valuable addition to literature.
230 pages. Postpaid $1.50
THE CRISIS PUBLISHING COMPANY
70 FIFTH AVENUE	NEW YORK CITY
Mention The Crisis
THE CRISIS
A RECORD OF THE DARKER RACES
PUBLISHED BY THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE, AT 70 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK CITY
Conducted by
W. E. BURGHARDT DU BOIS
AUGUSTUS GRANVILLE DILL, Business Manager
Contents copyrighted, 1914, by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People
Contents for June, 1914
PICTURES
COVER. The Spingarn Medal.
THE NEW COLORED MASONIC TEMPLE AT JACKSONVILLE,
FLA................................................. 65
EMANCIPATION. (Photographed from the group by Meta Warrick
Fuller.) .........................................   82
THE SHELL ROAD WITCH. (Photographed from life by L. R. Miner.) 90
ARTICLES
A SONG OF MAY AND JUNE. A Poem. By James D. Ccrrothers.	79
THE SPINGARN MEDAL..................................... 88
LISTEN, O ISLES! A Poem. By James D. Corrothers........ 89
THE SHELL ROAD WITCH. A Story. By M. Budd.............. 91
DEPARTMENTS
ALONG THE COLOR LINE................................... 59
MEN OF THE MONTH...................................     66
OPINION ............................................... 69
EDITORIAL *............................................ 76
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE. The Sixth Annual Conference......... 80
HISTORY AND FACTS.....................................  94
TEN CENTS A COPY; ONE DOLLAR A YEAR
FOREIGN SUBSCRIPTIONS TWENTY-FIVE CENTS EXTRA
RENEWALS:	When a subscription blank is attached to this page a renewal of your
subscription is desired. The date of the expiration of your subscription will be found on the
wrapper.
CHANGE OF ADDRESS: The address of a subscriber can be changed as often as desired.
In ordering a change of address, both the old and the new address must be given. Two weeks’
notice is required.
MANUSCRIPTS and drawings relating to colored people are desired. They must be accom-
panied by return postage. If found unavailable they will be returned.
Entered as Second-class Matter in the Post Office at Nexo York, N. Y.
56
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
Atlanta University
Is beautifully located in the Oity of Atlanta, Ga.
The courses of study include High School, Nor-
mal School and College, with manual training
and domestic science. Among the teachers are
graduates of Yale, Harvard, Dartmouth and
Wellesley. Forty-four years of successful work
have been completed. Students come from all
parts of the South. Graduates are almost
universally successful.
For further information address
President EDWARD T. WARE
ATLANTA, GA.
Knoxville College
Beautiful Situation. Healthful Location.
The Best Moral and Spiritual Environment.
A Splendid Intellectual Atmosphere.
Noted for Honest and Thorough Work.
Offers full courses in the following departments:
College, Normal, High School, Grammar School and
Industrial.
Good water, steam heat, electric lights, good
drainage. Expenses very reasonable.
Opportunity for Self-help.
Fall Term Begins September, 1914.
For information address
President R. W. McGRANAHAN
KNOXVILLE, TENN.
The fifteenth annual session of the State
Summer School for Colored Teachers of
both sexes at the
Agricultural and
^Mechanical College
GREENSBORO, N. C.
will begin June 29, 1914, and continue five
weeks.
In addition to the regular work, an attractive
lecture course has been arranged, in which
will appear some of the most distinguished
white and colored educators in the country.
Board and lodging for the entire session,
$12; tuition 25 cents per subject, unless
other arrangements have been made.
Limited accommodations. Send $1 and have
room reserved in advance.
For further information write at once to
JAMES B. DUDLEY, President, or
D.	J. JORDAN, Director.
A. y M. College. Greensboro, N. C.
LINCOLN INSTITUTE
Jefferson City, Missouri
Founded by the Negro soldiers of
the 64th and 65th Regiments. Sup-
ported by the State of Missouri.
One of the best-equipped schools
in the country for the education of
Negro boys and girls. Normal,
Collegiate, Agricultural and Indus-
trial Courses. Normal diplomas
carrying with them the degree B. Pd.
are life certificates to teach in the
public schools of Missouri. The
degree A. B. conferred upon those
who complete the collegiate course.
Four teachers of Music: Voice Cul-
ture, Piano, Violin, Band and
Orchestra Practice. Elocution,
Athletics, Drawing and Art.
Board $9.50 a month. Tuition $3.00 the
year to Missouri studonts. All others pay
$13.00 a year. Catalog free.
B. F. ALLEN, A. M., LL. D.
President.
Morehouse College
(Formerly Atlanta Baptist College)
ATLANTA, GA.
College, Academy, Divinity School
An institution famous within recent years
for its emphasis on all sides of manly
development—the only institution in the far
South devoted solely to the education of
Negro young men.
Graduates given high ranking by
greatest Northern universities. Debating,
Y. M. C. A., athletics, all live features.
For information address
JOHN HOPE, President.
ST. MARY’S SCHOOL
An Episcopal boarding and day school
for girls, under the direction of the Sisters
of St. Mary. Address:
THE SISTER-IN-CHARGE
611 N. 43d St.	W. Philadelphia, Pa.
Fisk University
NASHVILLE, TENN.
Founded 1866	C. W. Morrow, Dean
Thorough Literary, Scientific, Educa-
tional and Social Science Courses. Pioneer
in Negro music. Special study in Negro
■ history.
Ideal and sanitary buildings and grounds.
Well-equipped Science building.
Christian home life.
High standards of independent manhood
and womanhood.
Mention The Ckisis
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
57
‘Ike National Religious Training School
“I cordially commend the school’s interest and needs to all who believe
in the Negro race and in our obligation to help promote its intellectual,
moral and religious uplift."
—Rf.v. Dr. Charles H. Parkhurst, New York City.
IT IS MORE THAN A MERE SCHOOL
IT IS A COMMUNITY OF SERVICE AND UPLIFT
Its influence is destined to be felt in all sections o-f the country in improved
Negro community life wherever our trained workers locate.
Settlement workers, missionaries for home and foreign mission fields,
Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A. secretaries and district nurses receive a compre-
hensive grasp of their studies under a Wellesley graduate and experienced
co-workers and actual every-day practice through the school’s SOCIAL
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
We aim also to create a better qualified ministry.
Industrial training, advanced literary branches, business school.
Thirty-two acres; ten modern buildings; healthful location.
We can accommodate a few more earnest, ambitious students.
Communities requiring social workers should write us.
For catalog and detailed information address:
PRESIDENT JAMES E. SHEPARD
National Religious Training School - --	-- --	-- - Durham, N. C.
The school has no endowment fund and must raise a. yearly maintenance
fund of $15,000 for running expenses. Won’t you help us this year?
QJij? Glljeyttfg ©raining &ttyaal far (ilrarifrra
CHEYNEY, PENNSYLVANIA
Under the management of the Society of Friends. Beautifully
located, healthful, well appointed, and within easy reach of a great
variety of educational institutions, public and private, extending from
West Chester to Philadelphia; representing a wide range of educa-
tional problems and practice.
This school offers to young colored men and women who have a
reasonable secondary school preparation, and who earnestly desire
to become teachers, carefully graded courses in academic work,
domestic science, domestic art, manual crafts and agriculture. For
teachers of experience and intending teachers it offers also a six
weeks’ summer-school course, extending from July 1 to August 12.
Tuition is free. Board, lodging, heat, light and laundry privileges
are offered for nine months for $100. The charge for the same
during the summer-school course is $15. Write for particulars to
LESLIE PINCKNEY HILL, Principal
Mention Thb Crisis
58
THE CRISIS
ADVERTISER
Morgan College and Branches
OF INTEREST TO VOCAL STUDENTS
JOHN O. SPENCER, Prosidout
MORGAN COLLEGE. Baltimore, Md.
LOCATION: Central in great collogo town between
North and South.
COURSES:	Preparatory, Normal, Music, Advanced
Education. Collegiate, Appropriate Degrees.
INSTRUCTORS:	College and University trained.
Seven Colleges and Universities represented in
Faculty.
DORMITORIES: For a limited number, furnished.
TERMS: Very reasonable.
DEAN: Rev. Charles Edmund Young, D. D.
PRINCESS ANNE ACADEMY, Princess Anne, Md.
(The Eastern branch of the Maryland Agricultural
College.)
LOCATION:	The famous Eastern shore of Mary-
land. Somerset County.
COURSES:	Preparatory, Normal, Industrial, Do-
mestic Science, Music.
INSTRUCTORS: Collegiate and Technically trained.
DORMITORIES:	Carefully supervised, furnished.
TERMS:	Free tuition; other expenses moderate.
PRINCIPAL: Rev* Thomas H. Kinn, A. B.
VIRGINIA COLLEGIATE and INDUSTRIAL
INSTITUTE, Lynchburg. Va.
LOCATION:	On beautiful hill, suburb of growing
city.
COURSES: Preparatory, Normal, Domestic Science,
Gardening, Music.
INSTRUCTORS: College trained; carefully selected.
DORMITORIES:	Furnished; steam heat; accom-
modations for 50 girls; carefully supervised.
TERMS: Within the reach of all.
PRINCIPAL: Frank Trigg. A. M.
ALL SCHOOLS OPEN SEPTEMBER 28, 1914.
RELIABLE, LIVE,
RESPONSIBLE MEN
who can sell real estate can MAKE MORE
than $200 PER MONTH acting as
AGENTS for the sale of our properties in
MUSKOGEE and TAFT, OKLAHOMA.
The real coming country where there arc
opportunities and openings for all. Write
us to-day, giving your age and experience,
and we will offer you a FINE PROPOSI-
TION WHICH WILL MAKE YOU
MONEY. Address
REEVES REALTY CO.
TONE-PLACING AND
VOICE- DEVELOPMENT
Points explained, viz.: Breath
in Singing, Trying the Voice, the
Soprano, the Mezzo-Soprano, the
Contralto, Tenor Lcggiero or High
Tenor, tho Baritone, the Base,
Parts of the Vocal Apparatus, the
Mouth, tho Tongue, Position When
Practising, Position When Singing,
How to Practice, Good Rulos for
Singing.
Comment from tho world-renowned conductor of
the Paulist Choir of Chicago, 111., whose choir has
just received tho first prize awarded at the Sing-
ing Contest held in Paris on May 25, 1912:
“Dear Mr. Tinsley:
“I take groat pleasure In commending your very useful and
succinctly written book on ‘Tone-Placlno and Voice-Develop-
ment.'	Your	own	appreciation of tho psycholoRy of singing
snd tho fundamental principles of tho art you hare cleverly
reduced to a almplo system.	Cordially yours,
"Father WILLIAM J. FINN. C. 8. P..
Director Paulist Choristore of Chicago."
From "Musical Courlor," N. Y.: "A very practical little
book Is ‘Tone-Placing and Voloo-Development.' by Pedro T.
Tlnaley. It contains some very excellent material and vocal
exercises, and should bo in tho hands of all vocal students.”
From "Music Nows." Chicago, 111.: "Accordingly his
‘Praotlcal Method of Singing’ Is a most concise and practical
lltUe	mnnual,	containing many valuable vocal exerdsee. It
cannot fall to bo holpful to all ambitious vocal atudents."
HELPED HIM GREATLY
“Sinco I practised your exercises of 'Tone-Placing
and Voice-Development’ my voice is more resonant
than it has been for years. It seems to mo that I
am getting a new voice.” Prof. John T. Layton,
Director Ooleridge-Taylor Musical Society, 1722 10th
St., N. W.t Washington, D. 0.
PRICE $1.00
Address the publisher: Pedro T. Tinsley, 6-148
Drexel Ave., Chicago, 111.; or Clayton F. Summy,
64 E. Van Buren St., or Lyon & Healy, Adams
and Wabash Ave., Chicago, 111.
ANNOUNCEMENT
We desire intelligent persons to act as our local
distributors in communities where we are not already
represented. Would be pleased to hear from students
and teachers during vacation, or any l'eliablc person
able to furnish best references. Salary $9 a week
Department C
217 Flynn-Ames Bldg. Muskogee, Okla.
SOUTHERN DISTRIBUTORS COMPANY
Odd Follows Auditorium -	-	- Atlanta, Ga.
AGENTS MAKE $10.00 PER DAY
and more selling our famous Negro picture, “A Joyful Welcome Into
Heaven,” the finest picture ever painted with the Negro as a subject.
Semi-religious. Sells at sight. Send 15 cents in stamps or coin for
50-cent sample and agent’s terms. Money back if not satisfied at first
glance.
THE DOUGLAS SPECIALTIES COMPANY, Dept. K
3548 Vernon Avenue ------- Chicago, Ill-
Mention The Crisis
THE CRISIS
VoL 8—No. 2
JUNE, 1914
Whole No. 44
EDUCATION.
"T\R. ANDREW D. WHITE, president
emeritus of Cornell University, and
former ambassador to Germany, has offered
two prizes for the be3t papers on the history
and future of the Negro delivered at a con-
test in the colored Methodist church in
Ithaca, N. Y.
*1 St. Elmo Brady, a young colored man of
Louisville, Ky., who is doing post-graduate
work in chemistry at the University of
Illinois, has been awarded a scholarship at
this university extending over two years.
<1 The sum of $10,000 has been bequeathed
by Miss Lucy Belknap, of Louisville, Ky.,
for the education of colored girls and women
in that city.
<1 William M. Brooks, a colored senior in
the Keokuk (la.) High School, won first
honor in the annual oratorical contest of
the Keohi Literary Society. He read Dun-
bar’s “When Malindy Sings.”
9 Mrs. H. L. Carroll and Miss Amy Davis
were the two colored graduates the past term
from the William Penn Evening High
School for Women in Philadelphia. Mrs.
Carroll received honorable mention.
The recitation hall of the Joseph K.
Brick School, in Enfield, N. C., was burned
recently. The loss was $7,000, partly covered
by insurance.
Mrs. C. J. Walker, a colored business
woman of Indianapolis, is said to be found-
ing an industrial school in West Pondoland,
8outh Africa.
^ Atlanta University, defending the affirma-
tive side of the question, “Shall the United
States Disclaim the Monroe Doctrine as a
Part of Its Foreign Policy?” won from Fisk
in the annual debate. In a debate on the
same subject Fisk lost to Howard. Wilber-
force came off victorious in the annual de-
bate with Howard. The question was: “That
the Federal Government Should Own and
Operate the Telegraph and Telephone Sys-
tems of the United States.” .
q Lloyd P. Fisher, using Corwin’s “War
with Mexico,” won the first honors for
Storer College, Harper’s Ferry, W. Va., in
the annual oratorical contest with Morgan
College in Baltimore. Mary Moorman won
second prize for Morgan.
<J William H. Taft has been elected president
of the board of trustees of Hampton Insti-
tute in place of the late Robert C. Ogden.
<1 Wellington Willard, a young art student,
through the recommendation of the art
teacher in the Newport High School, is the
first colored person to be accepted in the
classes of the Art Association, of Newport,
R. I.
All of the schools under the Freedmen’s
Aid Society, formerly called universities,
have been renamed and will be known here-
after as colleges. This has been done so that
the actual work of the school will be repre-
sented by the name.
*1 The Mount Pilgrim Baptist Sunday-school
convention, which met recently at East Lake,
Ala., raised $1,500 for the completion of the
first building of the Birmingham Baptist
College for Negroes.
60
THE CRISIS
Q Because of lack of funds, Leonard Hos-
pital and the law school of Shaw University,
Raleigh, N. C., will be discontinued. The
medical course will be changed from a four-
to a two-year course.
Q The alumni and many others connected
with Fisk University are said to be protesting
against the continuation of Senator Luke
from Tennessee as a trustee of the school,
since he voted for the repeal of the Fifteenth
Amendment.
>
The faculty, graduates and friends of
Meharry Medical College, in Nashville, Tenn.,
celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of Dean
G.	W. Hubbard’s service in the college. Dr.
and Mrs. Hubbard were presented with a
silver service.
MUSIC AND ART.
* I ’ HE national convention of Congrega-
**■ tional Workers Among Colored People
met in Washington, D. C., April 15 to 19.
On April 17, at the First Congregational
Church, a convention concert was held under
the auspices of the Women’s Missionary
Society. All the artists were colored. Choral
numbers were given by the Howard Glee
Club, the Washington Folk Singers and the
Fisk Jubilee Singers. The soloists were
Mrs. Sylvia Olden, of Bricks, N. C., soprano,
and Mr. Roy Tibbs, organist, assisted by Mr.
John Butler, of Philadelphia, Pa., reader.
*3 Miss Ada Crogman, graduate of the Emer-
son School of Oratory, Boston, and teacher
of elocution at the State Normal School of
Montgomery, Ala., was heard in a spring
recital at Dexter Avenue Church in
Montgomery.
Q “The Senior,” a play written by Edwin
Bateman Norris, was presented at Atlanta
University by the University Players’ Club,
of Atlanta, Ga., on April 10. Mrs. Milton
Thompson directed the performance. Inci-
dental music was furnished by the university
orchestra.
On Easter Sunday afternoon a song re-
cital was given at the university by Mrs.
Alexina Carter-Barrell, the American singer
of Boston. Mrs. Barrell, who gave a diversi-
fied program, was accompanied by Miss
Haskell.
9 Mr. Clarence C. White, violinist, of Boston,
was presented by the Professional Club, of
Philadelphia, on April 16, at the Parkway
Auditorium. He was assisted by Mrs. Mary
Smith, soprano; R. Henri Robinson, pianist,
and T. H. Schackleford, reader.
<3 Mr. William Speights, the tenor of light
smooth voice and finish, appeared in a joint
recital with Mrs. Marjorie Groves-Robinson,
a pianist, on April 24, in Washington, D. C.
The recital was the third of a series of artists’
recitals given by the Washington Conserva-
tory of Music.
<3 The Renaissance Players, with Mr. Na-
thaniel Guy, gave “The Common Enemy” at
the Majestic Theatre at Washington, D. C.,
on April IS.
<3 An interesting musical organization com-
posed of female voices is the Treble Clef, of
Samuel Houston College, at Austin, Tex.,
which was organized two years ago for pub-
lic performances in the interest of the col-
lege. The soloists, Misses Hollingsworth,
Morgan and Williams, possess soprano voices
of unusual excellence. The director is Mr.
Arthur R. Grant, of Washington Conserva-
tory of Music. Mr. Grant, who directs the
vocal music of the college, is a young tenor
of large voice of excellent quality and em-
phatic sentiment.
<1 A number of fine modern public-school
buildings for colored youth have been re-
cently erected in the State of Texas, among
which are the high school at Austin and
the Frederick Douglass School at Dallas,
which contains twenty rooms. At the last
named the office and rest-room furnishings
and a player-piano were contributed by
popular subscription from the colored citi-
zens of the city. One of the large grammar
schools of Dallas has been renamed this
spring by the school board after the late
Wright Cuney, of Texas.
The eighth concert to be given by the
People’s Choral Society, of Philadelphia, was
that of March 26, at Musical Fund Hall.
The society, which numbers over 100 voices,
presented a program that was composed en-
tirely of numbers drawn from the works of
colored composers, and sung under the di-
rectorship of Alfred j. Hill. The chorus
was assisted by Dr. M. Abdallah Guillaume,
baritone, and the W. H. Cole Trio—Miss
Mildred M. Cole, piano; Harry F. Cole, vio-
lin, and W. H. Cole, ’cello. The accom-
panists were Miss Elizabeth Benson and
Miss Blanche Poole.
<3 At the invitation of Mrs. Briggs, teacher
of voice and wife of a prominent white at-
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
61
torney of Taylor, Tex., Mrs. Maud Cuney
Hare, pianist, and Mr. William H. Richard-
son, baritone, of Boston, Mass., who are tour-
ing in Northern Texas, gave an informal
musicale at the Briggs Studio, in Taylor, on
April 14. At Denton, on April 27, the Hare-
Richardson recital was given in the circuit
court assembly ball before an audience com-
posed of representative men and women.
The Coleridge-Taylor Club, of Norfolk,
Va., presented Mr. R. Nathaniel Dett, in-
structor at Hampton Institute, in a piano
recital on May 5. Mr. Dett was assisted by
Miss Blanche Smith, contralto; Miss Annie
Spiller, soprano; Miss Eliza Coppage,
reader, and Mr. William Kemp, violinist.
<J The Lincoln Institute Choral Society,
Jefferson City, Mo., presented the cantata,
“Messiah Victorious,” at Easter.
The Y. M. C. A. of Fisk University,
Nashville, Tenn., recently presented a comedy,
“Every Student,” which was written and
staged by two of the students, Louis Harper
and J. W. Collins.
<3 The 132d salon of the Society of French
Artists, which is known as the Old Salon,
as distinguished from that of the National
Society of Fine Arts, opened in Paris on
April 29. The exhibit, the largest in the
world, included several thousand paintings
and pieces of sculpture. H. O. Tanner, the
American artist, who lives in Paris, has two
fine canvases that are said by the reviews
to be the best pictures Mr. Tanner has done
for years, and full of religious feeling. One
represents Christ at the home of Lazarus;
the other shows Mary seated with a lighted
taper in her hand. The effect of shadow and
light has been noted particularly.
<3 Mrs. Viola Spikes-Kitchen, of San Fran-
cisco, appeared in a piano recital before a
large audience in Los Angeles, Cal. She
was supported by Minnie Albritton, so-
prano; Ethyle Miller, contralto; Gwendo-
lyne Baker, violinist; Mamie V. Cunningham,
reader, and Eugenie Baker, accompanist.
*3 Miss Ruth Day, a young colored girl, was
the leading soprano in a chorus of 150 voices
which rendered a May-day program at the
high school in Mount Vernon, 0.
SOCIAL UPLIFT.
A LARGE number of colored women of
Atlanta, Ga., with Mrs. John Hope
as chairman, have organized a civic-improve-
ment committee and have protested to the
city council against the poor public-school
conditions for colored children. A little
has been done to improve the schools, and
Clark University, a colored institution, has
given the ground for a public school in South
Atlanta. There are hundreds of colored
children in this section of the city and not a
single public school. The committee is now
trying to get an appropriation from the
city to erect a building on the ground given
by Clark.
<J Many colored working girls of Toledo, O.,
have formed a girls1 industrial club. These
girls have secured the use of a gymnasium in
the city for certain nights and hold their
social meetings in the colored Knights of
Pythias Hall. For their classes of various
kinds a few homes in the city are open.
<3 An association of thirty-two colored wo-
men are carrying on a day nursery for
colored children at Los Angeles, Cal.
<3 The State tuberculosis commission of
Kentucky has appointed a visiting Negro
nurse at Henderson, Ky.
<3 Howard Drew, the colored athlete,
equaled the world's record at a meet in Los
Angeles, Cal., in the 50 and 60-yard dashes,
and at the games of the Loughlin Lyceum in
the Thirteenth Regiment armory, New York,
he ran 90 yards in nine and two-fifth seconds,
which is one-fifth of a second faster than the
world's record. At Philadelphia, in the
relay carnival of the University of Pennsyl-
vania, Drew won the running broad jump
with twenty-two feet, and the 100-yard dash.
<3 Phyllis W. Waters, a young colored fresh-
man at the University of Michigan, has won
much praise for her skilful playing in a
basketball game between the juniors and
freshmen for the 'varsity championship. *
<3 William Hasbrouck, a colored elevator
operator in the Spencer apartment house in
New York, rescued all the tenants from fire
by running the elevator, in spite of smoke
and flames, until all were out. He collapsed
when he reached the street, but was later
rerived.
<3 A 12-year-old colored child was playing
on the railroad tracks at Gainesville, Mo.,,
and discovered a broken rail. He ran back
and told the officials of the Missouri, Kansas
and Texas Railroad, who held up the out-
going train until the rail was repaired and a
probable wreck avoided.
62
THE CRISIS
Mr. George Williams, a colored man, who
is 64 years old and has been an employee of
the Racquet Club of Philadelphia for twenty-
five years, was presented with a purse of
$3,000 by 100 of the original members of
the club.
<1 Edgar H. May, of Holton, Kan., who is
at present studying dentistry at Howard
University, in Washington, has invented a
carpet-cutting and fraying machine, used in
the manufacture of carpets. The young man’s
father owns a rug factory.
Earl St. Claire, a member of the Ninth
Cavalry, stationed at Douglass, Ariz., held up
two Americans and eight Mexicans who were
attempting to steal guns from the camp.
THE CHURCH.
y HE financial board of the A. M. E.
Church met in its annual session at
Washington, D. C., recently. The reports
showed that the amount of dollar money
raised in two years was $428,916.64. This
does not include pastors’ salaries or money
raised for local purposes. The extension
board of this church also met in Washington
on April 29.
<J The Varick A. M. E. Zion Church, in
Philadelphia, will soon be equipped for
social service and educational work and will
be known as the Varick Institutional Temple.
More than a thousand dollars has been raised
for this purpose through the efforts of the
pastor, Rev. S. L. Corrothers.
<1 The Missouri district conference of the
Colored Methodist Church met in Fulton
recently. Plans for raising $500,000 for
educational work among Negroes were dis-
cussed. The M. E. Church will provide
$400,000 if the Negroes raise $100,000.
<S The eighth convocation of the colored
Catholics of the diocese of Tennessee was
held in Columbia in April.
Q A Brazilian woman living in Rio Janeiro
has given her home, valued at $10,000, to the
Catholic Church to be used as a chapel, and
is living in two rented rooms.
Rev. George W. Camp, the colored pastor
of the Zion Church in St. Paul, Minn., was
one of the two clerical commissioners of the
ipresbytery of St. Paul to the general as-
sembly of the Presbyterian Church. Zion
•Church is the only colored Presbyterian
church in the State.
MEETINGS.
HP HE National Association of Colored
Women will meet at Wilberforce Uni-
versity, in Wilberforce, O., from August 4
to 10.
<3 The National Association of Colored
Schools will meet in Savannah, Ga., from
July 21 to August 2. The city council has
appropriated $300 for the entertainment of
the association.
<1 The thirty-third annual session of the
Alabama State Teachers’ Association con-
vened in Birmingham on April 7. This is,
perhaps, the largest State association of
colored teachers. One feature of the meeting
was the industrial exhibit from colored
schools held in the city hall.
<3 The Birmingham (Ala.) Negro Mothers’
Congress held its annual meeting recently.
Prof. Charles Zueblin was the principal
speaker.
<3 The Southern sociological conference
held its third session in Memphis, Tenn., May
6 to 10.
<3 A two days’ session of the National Inde-
pendent Civil and Political Negro League
convened in Philadelphia on April 21.
<3 The summer school for teachers at the
Florida A. & M. College, Tallahassee, is now
in session and will continue until August 1.
The session at the Tennessee State Normal
School, in Nashville, closes on July 17.
<2 A mass meeting in the interest of Howard
University was held recently in New York.
Dr. Alan Hudson, a white man, spoke and
proposed a resolution that the alumni of
Howard write President Wilson promising
to stand by him in the present crisis in the
Mexican situation. He asked for a standing
vote and not a single person stood. Later
Rev. Miller, of Brooklyn, who was presiding,
asked that Mr. Hudson withdraw the resolu-
tion and this was done.
PERSONAL.
r |T HE nomination of Robert H. Terrell,
A municipal judge of the District of
Columbia, was confirmed by the Senate on
Friday, April 24. A large number of
Senators refused to consider any other nom-
ination until this one had been voted upon.
The vote was 39 to 24.
<1 Prof. Hugo Johnson, who was for twenty-
six years president of the Virginia Normal
Institute, at Petersburg, Va., is dead.
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
63
JUDGE TERRELL’S OFFICE.
ECONOMICS.
' I 1 HE committee of one hundred, com-
posed of colored men of Jersey City,
N. J., has established the John Brown
Building and Loan Association of Hudson
County. Stock to the extent of $40,000 has
been taken.
<J During the past two years colored people
.of Washington, D. C., have invested $20,000
in business enterprises on U Street, between
9th and 14th. The People’s Investment Com-
pany expects to open a colored department
store soon on 7th Street, in a district popu-
lated by colored people.
^ Colored Masons in New York City have
purchased two houses in Harlem at a cost of
$15,000, which will be remodeled for a
Masonic temple.
Baltimore colored people had a formal
opening recently of the new $10,000 Pythian
hall.
Mr. John W. Lewis, a colored business
man, of Washington, D. C., recently pur-
chased at auction the True Reformers
Building for $30,300. Mr. Lewis was for-
merly janitor of this building.
FOREIGN.
P ASTOR ARGUDIN, a young painter,
* has, according to Minerva, a paper
published by colored people in Cuba, been
awarded a prize by the Academy of San
Fernando at Madrid for his copy of a can-
vas of Velasquez; and the municipality of
Havana has increased the scholarship under
which he is pursuing his studies at that
institution.
<3 Reports are that the authorities at Keme-
run, a German colony in Africa, wish to
dispossess the entire Negro population and
make a colony for Europeans only. It is
proposed that $500,000 be paid to- the natives
as compensation for their land.
<1 Five West Indian masons, serving in re-
lays of three, laid in one day of ten working
hours 96,000 bricks in a brick floor of the
Balboa terminals of the Panama Canal. The
masons were paid 13 cents an hour for the
work.
<J The South African Native National Con-
gress met recently in Kimberley, South
Africa, chiefly for the consideration of the
native land act.
64
THE CRISIS
England has announced officially that
native colony soldiers sentenced to imprison-
ment for more than six weeks shall be fet-
tered and as many as fifty lashes inflicted.
This because “black soldiers do not possess
a developed soldierly honor and joy in
obedience.”
<1 The African prince, Loben Lobengula, sou
of King Lobengula, the Matabele warrior, is
said to be dying of consumption in London.
<3 All amendments to the immigration bill
providing for the exclusion of Asiatics were
defeated in the House. The amendment pro-
posed by Senator Hayes, of California, was
to include in the bill all representatives of
the brown, black and yellow races.
THE GHETTO.
JH. GRAY, a white druggist, of Cleveland,
•	0., has been forced out of the manage-
ment of a drug store in that place because he
insisted upon employing two colored clerks.
He will open a drug store in another part
of the city.
Q The board of education of Cincinnati, 0.,
is said to be planning a school “exclusively
for colored people.” This will be the second
school for Negroes only in Cincinnati.
<1 Palls City, Neb., was voted dry recently
for the first time in fifty years by a solid
colored vote. The majority was 172. For
some time colored people have not been
allowed to enter the liquor dispensary.
The city council of Temple, Tex., has voted
to give white men preference over Negroes in
building sewers and waterworks extension.
One hundred white men had protested.
CRIME.
rTtHE following Negroes have been lynched
since the last account:
At Natchez, Miss., Allen Turner was
lynched for striking a white man with a hoe.
At Wagoner, Okla., a young 17-year-old girl
was lynched after being criminally assaulted
by two white men who came into the house
in her mother’s absence.
<J A mob of about fifty white men seized
the sheriff at Canon, Col., and marched to
the jail with ropes and axes to lynch a colored
man imprisoned there for murder. The
sheriff’s wife, however, turned in a fire alarm
and telephoned to the warden at the State
prison. The mob was soon disbanded.
«J Sullivan, a white census taker for the
public schools of Louisville, Ky., is accused
of criminally assaulting 16-year-old Mary
Woolridge, a colored girl. The deed was com-
mitted when he went to her home, in the
absence of her mother, to get census reports.
<3 Sedalia, Mo., had a race riot recently which
was quelled only when the police forces were
called out. The trouble arose through a dis-
pute between white and colored people over
a merry-go-round.
In Hawkinsville, Ga., an 18-year-old
white boy killed his sleeping uncle and then
reported the case, saying that a Negro com-
mitted the crime. Later a detective succeeded
in forcing the admission of the truth from
him.
*3 In Norfolk, Va., a white policeman and a
white woman, joy riding, ran into a gate
and were injured. The officer claimed that a
Negro had attacked the woman and that he
had been hurt in his attempt to arrest the
offender. Later the woman confessed the
truth.
^ Elbert Gray, a colored youth, 19 years of
age, has been sentenced to ninety-nine years
in the penitentiary, charged with illicit re-
lations with a young white woman who was
said to be feeble minded. Three years ago
Gray received a Carnegie medal for rescuing
a child from a well.
*3 William Miller, a colored man of Staun-
ton, Va., has been sentenced to an imprison-
ment of seven years, charged with assaulting
Lizzie Despar, a white woman.
A. B. Trentman, a white customer in the
Hotel Anthony cafe, in Forte Wayne, Ind.,
flew into a rage because when he called for
his coat the colored waiter asked him where
it was. He shot the waiter, who has died
since as a result of his wounds. Trentman
is being held without bond for murder in
the first degree.
tfjf Lake Sexton, a white man, of Caddo
Parish, La., has been convicted of man-
slaughter for killing Zet Oliver, a colored
man, without any provocation. Sentence has
not been passed.
<1 Rev. C. B. Ragsdale, a Baptist
minister, of Atlanta, Ga., has confessed that
he received a bribe of $200 to swear that
James Conley, a Negro, murdered Mary
Phagan, for whose murder Leo Frank, a
white man, has been convicted. He said that
the affidavit was made in the presence of
William J. Burns and two other detectives.
His resignation has been accepted by the
church.
THE NEW COLORED MASONIC TEMPLE AT JACKSONVILLE, FLA
ANOTHER ARTIST.
"D E. FOUNTAINE was born near
# London, Ontario, in 1869, and was
apprenticed to a cabinet maker. He early
showed a love of drawing, but his father was
determined to make a mechanic of him and
there ensued years of conflict. At the
Chicago World’s Fair Fountaine began to
realize his gift, but he married and became
a waiter. At last his ability was discovered
and he was given a place as janitor in the
O’Brien art gallery. He began to work
more systematically at painting and is at
last gaining recognition. Mr. Howard Vin-
cent O’Brien writes: “Mr. Fountaine’s paint-
ing is characterized by a sense of composi-
tion so intuitive as to be almost uncanny;
a very profound and sincere sympathy with
the more subtle and mystic phases of Nature,
and a truly remarkable grasp of the har-
monies of color. None of his work is high
in key. Most of it reveals the landscape in
its tenderer moods, perhaps a little melan-
choly, easily understood when we reflect that
nearly all the art of his race in music, in
poetry and in painting sounds an overtone
of patient sadness.
“These soft-colored harmonies of his, many
of them dealing with the evanescent instant
that few of us see and still fewer appre-
ciate—when night becomes day and, again,
when the process is inverted—are indescrib-
ably restful and charming. One of his sun-
sets seems to illumine a room with a softly
mysterious glow, independent of any other
lighting.
“But the pictures are no more interesting
than the man.”
m
A SCHOOL ADMINISTRATOR.
T}ROFESSOR LEWIS B. MOORE, the
dean of the Teachers’ College, and
professor of philosophy and education at
Howard University, Washington, D. C., was
born near Huntsville, Ala. He studied in
the public schools and in the school of the
American Missionary Association, at Flo-
rence, Ala., and was graduated in 1889 from
Fisk University.
While still in college he began preparation
for the ministry. Upon graduation he organ-
ized and took charge of the branch of the
Young Men’s Christian Association for
colored men in Philadelphia. While in Phila-
delphia he entered the University of Pennsyl-
vania, matriculating for the degree of doc-
tor of philosophy, which he won in 1896.
He was called to the preparatory department
of Howard University as tutor in 1895. Two
years later he was made assistant professor
of Latin and pedagogy, was promoted to full
DEAN LEWIS B, MOOBE.
MEN OF THE MONTH
67
ENGINE COMPANY No. 4, NASHVILLE, TENN.
professorship the following year and in 1899
was made dean and authorized to establish
a college for the higher education of teachers,
now known as the Teachers’ College.
Teachers trained in this college are engaged
in twenty-one States, the District of
Columbia, the Philippine Islands and
Africa. In 1906 Dean Moore visited several
countries in Europe to observe school
methods. He established a summer school for
teachers at Howard University in 1904,
whose opening session registered 204 teachers.
He has had great success as a lecturer at
summer schools at various places, and will
direct the coming session of the summer
school at Wilberforce University, Wilber-
force, 0. He is now engaged in writing a
psychology applied to education and a his-
tory of philosophy.
m
COLORED FIREMEN.
T N only a few cities of the United States
■ is it possible for colored men to be
appointed as firemen, although one finds a
single fireman here and there. In two cities
at least there are fully equipped fire com-
panies. In St. Paul, Minn., engine company
No. 22 was organized in 1885. W. R.
Godette has been with the company since
its organization. The Nashville company
has a remarkable record and is one of the
oldest in the city service.
There have been open and veiled attempts
in both cities to get rid of these excellent
civil servants or to handicap their efficiency
in various ways. So far all these attempts
have been unsuccessful, and both companies
stand among the very best organizations in
their respective cities.
B
A WHITE BISHOP.
■DISHOP JOHN MORGAN WALDEN
was born at Lebanon, 0., on February
11, 1831. From the time he was old enough
until he entered the Farmers’ College, near
Cincinnati, he worked as a flatboatman, get-
ting his elementary education chiefly by
reading.
From 1852 to 1856 he was employed first
as a teacher and later as a newspaper re-
68
THE CRISIS
ENGINE COMPANY No. 22, ST. PAUL, MINN.
porter. In 1856 he
went to Kansas and
published a Free
State paper, which he
had to discontinue
through fear of be-
ing lynched because
of some of his
editorials.
Later he was suc-
cessively State legis-
lator and State super-
intendent of educa-
tion in Kansas. It
was about this time
and from his experi-
ences in the legisla-
ture that he wrote
“Sockless Jerry
Simpson,” which was
widely quoted.
After studying for
the ministry, Mr.
Walden served at dif-
ferent times as pastor
of a church, city
BISHOP JOHN MORGAN WAEDEN.
missionary and pre-
siding elder. From
the close of the Civil
War, in which he
served as lieutenant-
colonel, he was an
agent of the Western
Book Concern until
1884, when he was
elected bishop and,
later in the year,
president of the
Freedmen's Aid So-
ciety. He died in
Florida, January 21,
1914, at the age of
84. Bishop Walden
was long interested in
Negro education, and
Walden University,
Nashville, Tenn., is
named after him. He
was a friend of the
Negro, but notaggres-
sively- or at all times
wholeheartedly so.
SEGREGATION.
r | * HE North Carolina decision has brought
much gratifying comment. “Another
high court,” says the Cleveland Plaindealer,
“has decided against the un-American policy
of segregating whites and Negroes. This
time the decision comes from North Caro-
lina, being the Supreme Court’s declaration
of invalidity against an ordinance enacted by
the city of Winston-Salem.
“Baltimore has tried segregation repeat-
edly; two different ordinances have been
thrown out by the courts and a third will
soon be subject to judicial action. Norfolk
has attempted the same action and a test
there is expected soon.
“The policy of segregation does not ap-
peal to the open-minded. At .the same time
there should be consideration felt for those
who feel the grind of the condition these
ordinances are designed to relieve. It is no
mere theory which confronts many of these
communities.
“But where would segregation lead to if
indulged in at will by the majority in a
community ? If a council has power to crowd
Negroes together by themselves, what could
there be to prevent a majority enforcing
segregation upon any other race, group or
creed whose standing in the community might
not be the highest? Virtually these questions
appear to have been raised by the North
Carolina court.
“In the long run, it is probable that the
problem which a segregation ordinance is
designed to solve will take care of itself. At
any rate, it is not well to adopt a remedy
which, in the last analysis, is worse than the
original affliction.”
Many papers remind us how dangerous a
precedent any other decision would have
been. The New York Evening Post says
“that the establishment of such a principle
might result in such restrictions as to ‘drive
out Republicans, Roman Catholics or Jews.’
The court has here put its finger on an ulti-
mate danger from the establishment of this
policy of segregation which far-sighted
Southern men ought never to lose sight of.
It would be an entering wedge that might,
and probably would, lead to other intolerable
abuses which no man can now foresee. The
only refuge for those who would establish
the ghetto on American soil at any cost
would seem to-day to be to follow the ex-
ample of Clarence Poe, who is leading the
North Carolina agitation for segregation of
Negro farmers in certain sections of the
State. He declares openly that if a Con-
stitutional law cannot be drawn to accom-
plish this ‘the South will find a way to get
around the Constitution,’ as, he adds, it has
already found several ways of circumventing
that instrument.”
It seems, however, that Mr. Clarence Poe
has not yet received the adherence of the
administration to his plan. The Newport
News (Va.) Times-Herald says:
“Secretary of State Bryan emphatically
declined to speak at the State convention of
Progressive Democrats at Raleigh, N. C.,
t -morrow, unless those in charge would
eradicate a plank in the platform, which is
derogatory to Negroes.
“Rather than lose the services of Mr.
Bryan’s oratorical powers, the North Caro->
lina Progressives decided to eliminate the
objectionable plank. That part of the plat-
form which aroused Mr. Bryan’s ire was
the ‘segregation of the races’ in the matter
of land ownership in certain parts of the
State of North Carolina.
“We wonder if Secretary Daniels is also
opposed to segregation.”
We sense, too, the larger implications of
this idea in the Ilanga Lose Natal} a colored
paper published in South Africa, which re-
70
THE CRISIS
ports that a South African politician “has
given voice to an idea that may stagger the
collective imperial authorities in England.
Put into few words, it is the racial segre-
gationalizing of the whole empire. No
wonder people are wondering where he has
picked up such a notion, for it certainly
suggests the break up of the largest empire
that history treats of; and when it has been
said ‘he comes from South Africa/ it has
been admitted that that partly accounted for
the ingenuity exceeding the reasonability of
the proposition. We ought to know that we
are viewed by outsiders as having segrega-
tion on the brain.”
The editor goes on to say:
“Racial segregation for the empire is
just what the empire’s enemies would like
to see attempted; it would give them just
the opening through which they could get.
And it may safely be said, if segregation
cannot be commended for the empire, neither
can it be commended for a part of the em-
pire. The principle is not partial, but
affects all parts in the general whole.”
a
EDUCATION.
'V\7’E are continually compelled to call
v v attention to false information,
coupled so often with deliberate deception,
as to the condition and opportunities of the
American Negro. For instance, Marguerite
Ainsleigh writes to the Cleveland Pldindealer :
“I have spent the past twelve years in the
South, having lived both in city and rural
districts in five States. Prior to that time I
was a teacher in the public schools in a
Northern State and have always been deeply
interested along educational lines. Wherever
I have been, when there is h school for
white children, there is also one for colored,
equally well equipped. There are no com-
pulsory education laws, but during the time
I have had knowledge of it education in
the South for both races has made rapid
strides, and the colored children attend the
public schools more regularly than the whites.
If they do not learn so rapidly as the white
children it is not from lack of facilities. It
is a rare thing to-day to find a Negro who
cannot read and write, while in the remote
rural districts there are numerous poor
whites who can do neither.”
Here is a flat-footed statement of fact by
an apparently honest observer. Yet we
have before us two equally flat-footed de-
nials of the truth of this lady’s assertion.
The Birmingham Age-Herald reported at
length the recent meeting of the colored
Alabama State Teachers’ Association. It did
not report the whole of the president’s
speech, but this is what Mr. William Pickens
said in part:
“Is not the inferiority of the Negro’s edu-
cational status and progress amply explained
by the inferiority of his educational advan-
tages? Let us look at the annual report of
the superintendent of education in the State
of Alabama for the year 1913 and see what
it reveals concerning the Negro. There were
more than 328,000 Negro children of school
age and about 399,000 white children. In
other words, about half, or strictly more than
45 per cent., of the children to be schooled
were Negroes, In the first place, just six
schools were provided for each thousand of
these colored children, while twelve schools
were provided for each thousand whites.
The property valuation of the white schools
was more than ten times the value of the
Negro schools; the equipment on the inside
of the white school was worth more than the
land, buildings and all the total property of
the Negro schools. If all went to school each
Negro teacher would have 138 pupils and
each white teacher 56 pupils. But the Negro
teacher is saved by the fact that the people
are so poor and the schoolhouses so uncom-
fortable and inconvenient that only 41 per
cent, of the colored children can attend, while
73 per cent, of the whites attend. The average
salary of rural white teachers is about $300—
the average of rural Negro teachers is less
than $150 a year. In our cities also the
average salary of the white teacher with
fewer pupils is more than double that of the
Negro teacher with more pupils. The white
schools have twenty times as many libraries
as the Negro schools. The State has no
higher education for Negroes; for the whites
there is the university with colleges and
normal schools. There are white high schools
for over 16,000 pupils. The figure given for
Negro high-school grades is 1,476, but judg-
ing from the fact that the statement from
Jefferson County seems to be exaggerated,
there are perhaps much less than 1,000 Negro
pupils being given high-school training by
the State. All the agricultural and county
high schools are white. All the school
officials are white.
OPINION
71
“What a fearful thing it is to be a superior
race! How much it costs to maintain that
superiority! I almost believe that the Negro
race would be tempted to retrograde into a
superior race if it could get hold of the
money, the machinery and the offices. To
cope against an inferior race in education,
a superior race must have more than ten
times as much money, more than twice as
many schools, two or three times as many
teachers, thirty-six more of school days in
each year, fifteen to twenty times as many
auxiliary books—and all of the management
and say so.”
Then comes Mr. B. T. Washington, who
has certainly never been used to overstating
the guilt of the white South. Speaking of
Mississippi, he says in the Outlook:
“By the last enumeration in that State the
school population was 712,000; of this num-
ber 400 were Indians, 302,000 whites and
410.000	colored. During the year 1912
244.000	colored children were enrolled in the
public schools; this is just a little over 50
per cent. The average attendance, however,
in the public schools was 143,000, or about
35 per cent, of the total number of
colored children in Mississippi. In other
words, 64 per cent, of the colored children in
Mississippi attended no public school dur-
ing the year 1912. In Hinds County the
average salary of colored teachers during
that year was about $16 a month for five
months.”
COLORED SOLDIERS.
*0 RIGADIER-GENERAL RICHARD H.
PRATT, U. S. A., retired, said
recently, according to the Army and Navy
Journal:
“Negro troops, after Lincoln’s proclama-
tion, became a considerable part of our Civil
War army, and they were efficient, patriotic
and valorous. A large and invaluable serv-
ice as guides, messengers and informers was
rendered to the Union forces all over the
South by individual Negroes on innumerable
occasions which history will little record.”
La Follette’s prints a further abstract:
“The Negro is entitled to a full, fair and
equal chance to develop all his best powers to
the highest extent. Until he has that full
chance and proves by that alone what he is
capable of, all assertion of lower order or
incompetence is baseless. This full chance
is never reached through any special schemes
of development in race masses, because- such
schemes inevitably and always lack in largest
liberty of opportunity and the necessary in-
spiration of highest example and achieve-
ment. Only when the Negro has exactly the
same citizen privilege following the same
training by the same force in all lines of
life that the whites enjoy can we hope for
just as high accomplishment among them
and the final removal of prejudice born of
lack in quality.”
He tells of one case where through the
finesse of a colored man the pickets were
ail made drunk:
“The Negro reported his success and the
column proceeded. Having passed the out-
post unchallenged, the reserves were not
warned of our presence until we were upon
them, when they turned out and surrendered
without resistance; the main reserve guard
surrendered in like manner. We proceeded
through the town and were in and surround-
ing their camp without alarm, the camp guard
supposing in the early dawn that we were
the return of their companies from their
scout. The colonel was summoned from his
tent by our colonel and called upon to sur-
render, which he did instantly when he saw
how completely he- was overpowered, and
we captured the entire command without
firing a gun. The officers and men were
turned out of their tents, their arms taken
from them, and then made to saddle their
horses and in little over half an hour we
were on our way back, reaching Elizabeth-
town that evening with 483 prisoners, their
arms and horses.”
This reminds us again of the curious posi-
tion of the ranking colored officer in the
United States army, Major Charles Young.
The Western Outlook says that when the
recent so-called “Manchu”. law becomes
effective “every army officer will have to
serve four years of every six with troops in
the field. In Young's case this will entail
his occupying a major's quarters in the
barracks. . Usually such quarters are con-
tained in one of a row of three houses pro-
vided for those of major's rank. Thus far
the War Department has succeeded in giving
Young, who is a West Point graduate, de-
tached details, thus preventing any breach
because of his close association in barracks
with brother officers. But detached details
will not be possible under the ‘Manchu’
amendments.
72
THE CRISIS
“Thus far the race question has never been
serious in the army, owing to the organization
of white and colored regiments, yet officers
at a post are thrown so constantly in each
other’s company, particularly those of the
same rank, that the disposition of Young is a
vital question. It is gossip here that pre-
vious attempts to ‘get’ Young have failed.
He has passed all his examinations with fly-
ing colors, is a first-class soldier and fighting
man, and just simply cannot be ousted. As a
matter of fact, army officers are rather proud
of him in an official way.”
m
NEGRO MORTALITY.
DR. WILLIAM C. WOODWARD is
health officer of the District of Colum-
bia and consequently has to explain the
criminally large death rate among Negroes
of the national, capital. This, however, pre-
sents no difficulties to the astute Dr. Wood-
ward, and, according to the New Orleans
Times-Picayune, he has just pointed out
that “it will probably be impossible to re-
duce the death rate among the Negroes as
low as that of the whites,” for “racial
reasons”!
It certainly will be impossible as long as
the following facts, taken from the report in
the Outlook, remain true:
“These Washington alleys are intricate and
winding and often entirely hidden from the
view of the street. Sometimes a single alley
has a population of between 200 and 300
people. It is a small community, a law unto
itself, a breeding place for vice and crime.
In Washington at the present time some
11,000	persons live in alleys where conditions
of health and morality are such as are a dis-
grace to the city and the nation.
“Recent statistics of the health office show
that one-half of the children born to colored
mothers within the alleys are illegitimate,
while but one in five born to colored mothers
on the streets is illegitimate, the total rate of
illegitimacy in the city as a whole being equal
to 10.3 per cent.
“During the year 1912 there were 700
deaths from tuberculosis in the District of
Columbia. This disease, as well as all other
communicable diseases, prevails to a greater
extent within the alleys. As a result of this
state of affairs, in the fifty cities of over
100,000	population in the United States only
nine have a higher death rate than
Washington.”
SOCIAL EQUALITY.
117E reprint with emphasis the following
editorial from the Congregationalist,
entitled “Making Marriage a Crime”:
“A bill making it a crime for white per-
sons and persons of Negro blood to marry in
the District of Columbia is now pending in
Congress under a favorable report from the
House Committee on the District of Colum-
bia. Such future marriages would be made
null and void by the bill and violations of it
would be punishable by a fine of not less
than $1,000 nor more than $5,000, by im-
prisonment at hard labor for not less than
one year nor more than five years or both
fine and imprisonment, and an officer or
minister who served in such attempted mar-
riage would be liable to a fine of $250 to
$1,000 and imprisonment at hard labor for
six months to one year. The members of
Congress should realize the moral wrong, the
social iniquity and the legal outrage of such
a measure. Furthermore, a careful investi-
gation among the government clerks at Wash-
ington shows that there are no intermarriages
of white and colored clerks, although they
. have worked together for many years. There
is no call for such a law. It would bring
the colored people into contempt, would fos-
ter immorality and would deprive colored
girls and women of much of the legal pro-
tection against immoral men.that others have.
Measures that would restrict colored clerks
in the civil service to inferior positions are
also pending. Urge your Representatives
and Senators to vote against all measures
intended to segregate, repress and in any way
to discriminate against colored Americans.”
The difficulty about laws of this sort is
illustrated by the remarkable results of at-
tempting to draw absolute lines as to social
relations. Everyone thought, for instance,
that there was a clear and broad distinc-
tion between social and economic equality.
Not so, says former Governor Joseph M.
Brown, of Georgia, in an open letter pub-
lished in the Atlanta Journal. He says:
“To the People of Georgia,” that “it has
been deemed that there was an impassable
gulf between social equality of the whites and
Negroes, but the members of white labor
unions, in voting to affiliate with members
of Negro labor unions, have made the first
move calculated to bridge that gulf.”
Governor Brown then points out the
sympathetic strike of white longshoremen for
OPINION
73
higher Negro wages in Mobile, Ala.; the en-
deavor to make Negro longshoremen in Texas
join the white union; the admission of Negro
laborers to the Southern Labor Congress,
etc.:
“To those who are uncompromisingly op-
posed to Negro social equality there is no
astonishment in noting that this was not the
request, or plea, of the Negroes. Yet the
paradox is that the initiative was taken, the
demand was made by the white men of the
labor unions at Southern seaports, and that
this equality, forced upon the Negroes by the
white local unions at Mobile and Galveston,
was ratified, with only two dissenting votes,
by the Southern Labor Congress, presided
over by our own Atlanta Jerome Jones and
‘secretaried’ by our Atlanta W. C. Puckett.”
Finally, the governor shrieks:
“Fellow citizens, are you prepared to let
the labor union minority of 12,000 out of
3S0,000	white men in Georgia bluff you into
interruption of your commerce and mails and
your power to travel, bluff you into suspen-
sion of work in your factories and in the
erection of your buildings, bluff you into
tolerating, even in its own members, social
equality with the Negroes? Are you pre-
pared to allow it to exercise class preference
and enforce class dominance over all other
classes in our State? Are you prepared to
further allow its union label to exact greater
allegiance in Georgia than does her great
seal of State?”
B
JUDGE TERRELL.
nr HE Buffalo Inquirer rejoices at R. H.
Terrell’s confirmation and says that:
“The confirmation of Judge Terrell places
a qualified man on the bench, but better than
that, it is a triumph over the race prejudice
that would bar all colored men from office.
Justice and reason united to forbid giving
the Negro race the sense of injury that
Vardaman’s policy would have inflicted.”
The Boston Post asks:
“And why not, indeed? Is an American
citizen’s worth, either in the field or on the
bench, to be judged by the color of his skin?
The splendid services men of African blood
have performed for the country in many lines
of endeavor is the best answer to that
question.”
The National Tribune, of Washington,
says:
“It has been as brisk a little fight as the
Senate has seen in two years, but the out-
come has been assured from the start. Terrell
had a majority of Senators, and there was no
preventing his confirmation. The opposition
has accomplished virtually nothing, except to
emphasize Judge Terrell’s qualifications and
to augment his reputation as an efficient
magistrate.”
The fact is that even the South recognizes
that Mr. Yardaman is making rather an ass
of himself. The Macon Telegraph says of
his attitude on woman’s suffrage:
“If Senator Vardaman had contended that
it was really a question of home rule, and
revealed less of his violent anti-Negro senti-
ment with its inevitable invitation to the
charge of exaggerated prejudice, he would
have been much more effective.”
B
THE COLOR OF THE LORD.
SEVERAL persons have written us object-
ing to the intimation in our advertising
columns that Jesus Christ was not a white
man. We confess to a certain lack of interest
in the subject, but are forced in self-defense
to publish this note from the Cambridge
Encyclopedia Company concerning their coin
collection:
“Among other rare pieces our collection
contains a gold solidus of Justinian II. (circ.
A.	D. 705), which was purchased from
Lincoln & Co., the well-known numismatists
of Oxford Street, London, after having been
verified as genuine by the coin department
of the British Museum.
“The dbverse is stamped with the full-
faced bust of Justinian, with robe c&rrle and
cross; legend: Justinianus, Serv. Christi
(Justinian, Servant of Christ). Reverse,
full-faced bust of Jesus Christ with woolly
hair. Behind him, the cross. Legend: D. N.
IES CHS. REX REGNANTIUM (Dominus
Noster, Jesu Christo, King of Kings).
irWhatever the fact, this coin places beyond
dispute the "belief that Jesus Christ was a
Negro. The coin is otherwise of great his-
torical interest; for it was the cause of a war
between Justinian and Abdul Malik, 5th
caliph of the Ommiads, the former demand-
ing tribute to be paid in these same coins and
the latter refusing.”
74
THE CRISIS
OKLAHOMA.
T N the February Crisis we spoke of
conditions in Oklahoma. A letter from
the judge of the court under whose super-
vision Sarah Rector is says that her
income is $15,000 a month and that a six-
room cottage, worth $1,200, has been erected
for her and that her white guardian is
allowed to pay $50 a month for her sup-
port, schooling and education. Also,- it
would seem that the fee of the guardian has
not yet been determined by the court. In
other respects there seems to be no material
discrepancy with the statement in The
Crisis.
A colored lawyer writes us as follows:
“Immediately on the advent of Statehood
disfranchisement and other discriminative
laws were passed. By such laws those who
had persuaded Congress to believe in the
fitness of the freedman to conduct his own
business, took all his holdings, or nearly all,
except that belonging to his children, ad-
mitted to the world that they lied solely for
a mean advantage. The Negro is the only
man in Oklahoma deprived of his right to
vote. Being thus prevented from a partici-
pation in the government to which he is
subservient, he finds himself unable to pro-
tect his life, property or liberty. His fate
as a voter is passed up to election inspectors,
who for the most part are chosen to serve
a political purpose regardless of the sanctity
of the ballot, and hundreds of men qualified
to vote are denied the right merely because
the election officials choose not to allow them
to vote. Thus men are elected to office to
make laws affecting his rights without his
consent or protest, for I take it that when the
minority fails to elect its candidate its protest
is exhibited in the fact that it voted against
the successful one. Knowing that he is with-
out vote, for the most part, those elected to
office feel they have nothing to fear from his
objections, and are disposed to ignore him
and his rights entirely. In many instances his
property is assessed at a greater rate than
that of his white brother. The writer has
suffered from that discrimination and knows
it to be true. Being disfranchised he is dis-
qualified for jury service and must sub-
mit his rights to the determination of men
often whom he knows are prejudiced against
him, and it. never fails to tell in the verdict
adverse to his interests.
“There are some men, few be it said, who
undertake to discharge their oaths and obli-
gations as officials toward the Negro like any
other citizen, but they are menaced and
mobbed with abuse; however some of them are
courageous enough to do right despite wbat
comes. From my experience in this section,
God deliver me from the Southernized
Northerner.
“The first sentence in your recent article
is the unvarnished truth, to wit: ‘Negroes
have been robbed, actually robbed with im-
punity and openly/ One white man here,
a business man, would even leave his nice
wife and grown daughters to go and con-
sort with a Negro Creek girl for the pur-
pose of getting her lands. He got the
lands. Much whiskey has been used with
the native girls in an effort to cheat them
out of their estates. Boys and girls have
even been carried from the State and herded,
to force them to make deeds to their lands.
In hundreds of instances they were married
off by the prospective purchaser to entire
strangers devoid of moral character, and
ofttimes in houses of assignation, in further-
ance of their schemes to cheat and defraud
these helpless creatures. The stench became
so fearful that it required a special law
against the validity of deeds made by per-
sons under majority. Almost in every case
the white man carried with him a worthless
Negro tool who piloted the unsuspecting into
the trap already prepared.
“These competent freedmen have been told
in most cases recently that th§y were unfit
to be guardians for their own children and
immediately the children were given a white
guardian. Just think what you would expect
from one prejudiced against your interest
should your entire business be turned into
his hands by law and you have the exact
notion of just what happens. Criticism can-
not be too severe on this line. I am opposed
to either race being guardian for the other.
If these minors must have guardians, let it
be in a manner not of political preferment.
Thus and thus only can the ends of good
government be subserved.
“Many interesting things might be told of
how the freedman was fleeced of his hold-
ings and how he then attempted to become
also a smart and dishonest man, like those
who robbed him, and how, finally, the -same
man sat on the jury and sent the poor black
to prison because he had learned so illy the
only lesson which his brother in white
taught him.”
OPINION
75
MISCELLANEOUS.
rT1 HE New York Evening Post, comment-
ing on the recent speech of a Southern
man, says:
“Out of the South, yes, out of the State
of Vardaman, there comes to us one of the
most interesting historical papers published
of late. It is the valedictory of Alfred Holt
Stone, as president of the Mississippi
Historical Society, and the most startling
thing about it is that its author still lives.
For Mr. Stone has dared, with inconceivable
rashness, to lay nlthless hands upon many
Southern traditions, to tilt at Inany accepted
theories, and—worst of all—to appeal. to
Southern historians to write their own history
with strict regard to truth, free from all the
glamour of a lost cause and a novelized past.
Here is an overt act of treason. Mr. Stone’s
temerity leaves us gasping. Was not the
present Secretary of Agriculture abused
throughout the South because he refused to
recognize the sanctity of the political doc-
trines of John C. Calhoun, and even dared in
the twentieth century to criticise them? Is
it not true that the present ambassador to
London, if renominated to-day, could prob-
ably not be confirmed because Southern
Senators have identified him as the author of
a novel whose viewpoint as to current-day
Southern problems they greatly dislike?
Was not one Southern professor driven out
of his chair because of an article critical of
the South in the Atlantic Monthlyf And
another practically forced out of his for
declaring that the two greatest books pro-
duced by the South since the Civil War were
by colored men?”
We have spoken of the Cossett Library in
Memphis. It is, as its prospectus says,
“supported by taxation and its use is free
to everyone” except Negroes, who are taxed
for it and who cannot have access to its
beautiful building with its museum or its
reference room or young people’s section.
Mrs. C. K. Yerby writes us, however, that:
“In 1903 there was established, at Le-
Moyne Institute, a branch of Cossett Library
for colored people. In September, 1913, the
school department was added. Under this
department systematic effort is being made
to create a reading public. Desired books
may be obtained from Cossett Library
through each of these departments.
“Each Saturday a story hour, with stereop-
ticon views, is held. Semi-monthly book
reviews, second and fourth Fridays of each
month, is another effort toward this end.
These are maintained by and under the direc-
tion of Cossett Library.
M
MIGRATION AND AFRICA.
r I ' HE CRISIS has already warned its
readers against “Chief” Sam and his
African schemes. The Chicago Post, dis-
cussing “a Negro colonizing fake,” says:
“Too much ridicule should not be heaped
upon the colored people who have paid $25
each for shares in the colonizing expedition
which an African-born Negro, Chief Sam,
of Akim, promises to lead to the Gold
Coast of Africa—where he does not own any
land on which to plant it.
“The fact that Sam has collected $75,000
from deluded colored people all over the
country, and that he cannot even get them
across the Atlantic for the sum left when
his unseaworthy steamer is paid for, is one
of those tragedies of human folly which have
usually, so far, been confined to members of
the white race.
“That the wealth of colored people is great
enough to make them an object for the snares
of large-scale swindlers is simply another
tribute to Negro progress.
“This incident shows part of the reverse
side of progress, and colored people who have
been taken in by it are in no worse plight
than many intelligent whites who own shares
in mythical gold mines and acres and acres
of Florida land safely covered up by tide
water.”
A correspondent in the New York Sun has
this advice:
“If Chief Sam’s followers can face the
most difficult climate in the world, if they
can exist on a greatly restricted menu and
all the hardships incidental to an almost
barbarous country, they may extract some
living from the soil, very fertile only in
small sections where it is not forest or swamp.
With intelligence and ingenuity they may
be able to garner the natural products of
the country in paying quantities to send to
the nearest trading station. There is some
gold, and cotton can be grown in places. • • •
<fBut only the most daring of pioneers
would care to wrestle with the problems of
life there, and the emigrants should be
warned that there is a thoroughly different
side to Chief Sam’s glowing picture.”
AMERICAN CIVILIZATION	
The Crisis,	Clovis, N. M. New York City. The facts in the Wagoner (Okla.) lynching are as follows: The family are respectable ; people, the girl who suffered was about 17 years of age. Two half-drunken whites en- tered their home during the absence of the mother, found the young girl dressing, locked themselves in the room and raped her. Her cries brought her brother from the barn, who kicked down the door and was promptly attacked by the white men, one of whom he killed. The remainder of the story you know. (See The Crisis for May, page 22.) The young man passed through here, making his way to Old Mexico, and is quite anxious to learn the fate of his mother. From his hiding place he could hear the cries of his sister as the mob dealt with her. Yours, J. H. Coleman.	‘ ‘ Contrary to unenlightened Northern opinion, Southerners j entertain no malice whatever to- ward the Negro, but regard and treat him, when he deserves such treatment, with unusual considera- tion.,,—Editorial in the Macon (Ga.) News. “Negroes are human beings like white folk, only with a little more of the child to hold in check, more of the brute.”—A Southerner in the Outlook. “Maybe we will be able to con- j trol the Negro and so save our civilization.1 y—Ex-Senator Bailey, of Texas. “There exists among Negroes a vicious class where crimes are often pursued by a lawless vengeance/1 j. —America. “The general advance of an in- ferior race will never equal that of one which is superior by nature/’ [! —Hilary A. Herbert, of Alabama. “The distinctly criminal Negro !■? is often guilty of unusual and ab- normal crimes/’—Edgar Gardner Murphy, of Alabama. ‘ ‘The crime of rape of late years had its baleful renascence in the l teaching of equality and placing of power in the ignorant Negroes ’ hands/’—Thomas Nelson Page, of Virginia.
EDITORIAL
77
APPROVAL.
READ in the May issue of
The Crisis your stirring
editorial, entitled ‘1 The
Philosophy of Mr. Dole,”
with very deep interest.
It has my hearty ap-
proval. I like the ring of it. I like the
manly spirit which it reveals. I like
the evidence which it gives of strong con-
victions and of an earnest purpose to be
true to those convictions in the face of
adverse criticism, whether from friends
or foes. In the great struggle for free-
dom years ago Mr. Garrison demanded
for the slave immediate, unconditional
emancipation. And the demand was
made on the ground that slavery was
wrong and that, being wrong, it ought to
be terminated at once. This was the view
held by all the men and women who were
engaged in the anti-slavery cause. They
believed that the slavery question, in
its last analysis, was a moral question—
a question of right and wrong. It was
on that basis that it was fought out.
It was that conviction that took posses-
sion of Mr. Garrison, and out of which
there came those dauntless words of his:
“I am in earnest, I will not equivocate,
I will not excuse, I will not retreat a
single inch and I will be heard.” It is
this old anti-slavery viewpoint and spirit
that are needed to-day in dealing with
the present form of the race question.
As long as men look upon it as having no
moral basis, as involving no question of
right and wrong—as a matter to be
settled by considerations of expediency
and favoritism, depending upon the good
graces of white people, or our ability to
ingratiate ourselves into their favor
—this mincing of words, this dilly-
dallying, this spirit of compromise on
the part of many of our white
friends, and the obsequiousness and
truckling that we see on the part of
some of our race leaders, will continue.
When white men and black men fully
realize that the treatment that is ac-
corded to colored people in this country
—the manner in which they are re-
garded, the insults that are heaped upon
them, the inhumanity that meets them
everywhere—is wrong, and just as wrong
as it was to hold them in slavery, things
will be different. When the moral aspect
of the subject is clearly perceived there
will be no longer any disposition to
temporize with it—no longer any effort
made to condone or palliate such treat-
ment. It will be dealt with as other evils
are dealt with—in a straightforward,
courageous manner.
It is wrong! wrong! wrong! for us to
be treated as we are treated in this
country, and it ought to appeal to every
honest, upright, God-fearing, manly man
and womanly woman in the nation to
see that the wrong is righted and righted
at once.
I am glad that you wrote the editorial,
and trust that there will be more of the
same kind, until the whole country is
aroused to a sense of the iniquity of
present conditions. In the language of
Mr. Pickens' stirring poem—
Until the truth Is known and Justice done,
Speak on!
Francis J. Grimke.
m
SENATORS’ RECORDS.
URING the debate in the
Senate of the United
States on the joint reso-
lution proposing to
amend the Constitution
by extending the suffrage
to women, the race question obtruded
itself and, as a result, many Senators, by
their speeches and votes, put themselves
on record. This record will be of
interest to Negro voters throughout the
country.
Two amendments to the resolution
were offered, both intended to repeal the
Fifteenth Amendment. The first, pro-
posed by Vardaman, of Mississippi, was
to insert after the word “sex” the
following:
“But in all other respects the right
of citizens to vote shall be controlled by
the State wherein they reside.”
78
THE CRISIS
The second, offered by Williams, of
Mississippi, proposed to amend by insert-
ing before the word “citizens” the word
“white,” so that, as amended, the sec-
tion would read:
Section 1. “The right of white citi-
zens of the United States to vote shall
not be denied or abridged by the United
States or by any State on account of
sex.”
Of the Senators from the South the
following only signified their opposition
to the repeal of the Fifteenth Amend-
ment: Bradley, of Kentucky; Du Pont,
of Delaware; Chilton, of West Virginia;
Fall, of New Mexico; Catron, of New
Mexico; Ashhurst, of Arizona. Thorn-
ton, of Louisiana, opposed the Vardaman
amendment, but expressly stated that he
was ready at any time to support a
straight resolution repealing the Fif-
teenth Amendment. Saulsbury, of Dela-
ware, did not vote, but was announced as
favoring both amendments. Reed, of
Missouri, opposed the Williams amend-
ment, but he had already voted for the
Vardaman amendment. Bankhead,
Clark, of Arkansas, Robinson, Culberson,
Fletcher, Goff, Simmons, Smith, of
Maryland, Smith, of Arizona, and Stone,
of Missouri, did not vote and were not
announced as on either side.
Of the Northern Senators, Meyers, of
Montana, voted for both amendments.
Newlands and Pittman, of Nevada, voted
for the Williams amendment.
During the debate Pittman, of Ne-
vada, stated that he opposed the suffrage
amendment because he realized that its
passage would embarrass the South in
its treatment of the Negro problem, and
because he did not care to endanger the
chances of future anti-Japanese legisla-
tion by alienating the South on the Negro
question. His colleague, Newlands, in a
speech in support of the woman's suff-
rage amendment, took occasion to state
his belief in Negro disfranchisement and
white supremacy. Borah, of Idaho, in
a long speech and in numerous shorter
ones, opposed the suffrage amendment
on the ground that it would not be en-
forced in the South as to colored women
and that he would not be a party to
writing into the Constitution another
provision which he knew would not be
enforced. Bryan, of Florida, and the
two Mississippi Senators supported the
proposed repeal of the Fifteenth Amend-
ment by their speeches. This proposi-
tion was opposed by Bristow, Town-
send, Gallinger and Clapp.
Of the Senators who by their stand on
this question showed themselves as op-
posed to the interests of the colored
people, only Newlands, of Nevada,
comes up for re-election this year. Un-
fortunately, the Negro vote in his State
is of slight importance. It should, how-
ever^ be cast solidly against the re-elec-
tion of Senator Newlands. Of Senators
who have on this and other matters
shown that they have the interests of the
colored people at heart, the following
come up for re-election: Bradley, of
Kentucky; Bristow, of Kansas; Gallin-
ger, of New Hampshire; Jones, of Wash-
ington; Sherman, of Illinois.
In the recent fight for the Jones
amendment to the Smith-Lever bill the
issue was not clearly drawn, because
the introduction of the Shafroth amend-
ment caused persons who otherwise
would have voted for the Jones amend-
ment to oppose it. However, one Re-
publican Senator, Brady, of Ohio, inti-
mated throughout his debate his
opposition. He * also comes up for re-
election this fall and should be opposed
by the colored voters.
B
VOTERS, ATTENTION!
HE Congress has passed a
bill distributing
$15,000,000 of United
States money for agri-
cultural education. The
following United States
Senators refused to vote for distributing
the fund impartially among colored and
white students:
Hollis, of New Hampshire.
EDITORIAL
79
Hughes, of New Jersey.
Johnson, of Maine.
Lewis, of Illinois.
Martine, of New Jersey.
Newlands, of Nevada.
Poraerene, of Ohio.
Reed, of Missouri.
Saulsbury, of Delaware.
Shively, of Indiana.
Smith, of Arizona.
Stone, of Missouri.
Thompson, of Kansas.
Chamberlain, of Oregon.
O’Gorman, of New York.
Pittman, of Nevada.
Thomas, of Colorado.
Walsh, of Montana.
Brady, of Idaho.
Write a protest to these men and vote
against their re-election.
m
MEXICO.
HERE is, without doubt,
a deep hesitancy
throughout this nation
in the matter of war
with Mexico. This was
not true when we gaily
“liberated” Cuba and benevolently
assimilated the Philippines. What did
we care for race problems then? We
had our problems settled easily and
fluently. All “niggers,” “dagoes,”
“chinks,” “Japs” and “mongrels”
were inferiors and consequently easy to
whip and keep whipped. We therefore
envisaged millions of additional working
slaves to add to the black peons of our
own South and swell the comfortable
stream of dividends flowing into white
pockets.
Our plan worked. We have Cuba by
the industrial throat and the Philippines
on its knees, albeit squirming. Why not
Mexico with its millions of brown peons ?
Because the fact is that we, with all our
success, are not only uncomfortable, but
we scent danger. Are there inferior
human beings or only inferior food and
opportunity? Can the white world
always hold the black world by the throat
and keep it to work? What are these
darker, desperate things thinking of
and, thinking, what will they do when
thought comes to action?
And, finally, how much civilization
can we teach the world anyway? Are
we civilized? We may blunder into
murder and shame and call it a Mexi-
can war. But it will not be war. It
will be crime.
A SONG of MAY and JUNE
By JAMES D. CORROTHERS
OH, sweet as an orient “Maid o’ the
Moon,”
With wild roses in her dark hair,
Entranced by the magical minstrel June,
May stands in her garden fair.
For June, the herald of summer gay,
Is prince of its minstrelsy;
And never a monarch of ancient day
Wore gaudier robes than he.
Over the hills comes the minstrel June,
Perfuming and thrilling the air;
Sweet May will sink on his breast a-swoon,
And die as he holds her there.
DRUID HILL AVENUE—THE LEADING COLORED RESIDENTIAL STREET IN BALTIMORE.
cIk& National Association for the Advancement
of Colored People
THE SIXTH ANNUAL CONFERENCE
E National Association for
the Advancement of Colored
People is beginning to feel
that it has advanced, if not
to a ripe age, at least to a
vigorous youth, when it re-
ports that it held its
SIXTH ANNEAL CONFERENCE at
Baltimore on May 3, 4 and 5. It has passed
through its perilous and formative first
years, and on its sixth anniversary finds that
it is a recognized power in the land. By
steady propaganda and untiring executive
work * it has made itself felt from the At-
lantic to the Pacific, from the Gulf of
Mexico to the Great Lakes. And when it
received an invitation to hold the next con-
ference at San Francisco and Oakland dur-
ing the Pan-American Exposition it fully
realized its national existence.
Baltimore proved an admirable place for
the conference. The conference committee
of the branch had made every arrangement
for the successful holding of the sessions
and for the comfort of the delegates. The
city’s largest colored churches were called
into service and at the evening meetings
failed to seat the crowds who gathered to
hear the new tidings. The delegates and
friends were hospitably received Monday
afternoon at the home of Bishop Hurst, and
Tuesday afternoon at the Bethel A. M. E.
Chapel. Nothing that the colored people
could do was left undone to make the meet-
ings a complete success.
There was one unfortunate happening.
On the last night the session was scheduled
for McCoy Hall, Johns Hopkins University.
The audience on arriving found the hall
closed and were directed by members of the
THE N. A. A. C. P.
81
Baltimore conference to adjourn to the
Bethel A. M. E. Church. Much excite-
ment was felt and some of it was expressed
at Bethel Church that evening. The associa-
tion is glad to be able to report that the
matter was due to a blunder for which no
one person was wholly responsible. The
registrar thought the meeting had been
called off, because he had received no second
notice; the Baltimore committee failed to
send a second notice because it thought the
wife of the trustee who had secured the hall
for the conference was doing so; and the
wife of the trustee who had secured the hall
failed to send a second notice because she
thought it unnecessary. The president of
the board of trustees of Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity writes us:
“I can say positively for the trustees, and
the authorities of the university that there
was no intentional closing of the hall. Under
no circumstances would we have allowed such
a seeming slight placed upon the conference.
Had there been the slightest objection it
would have been considered by the adminis-
trative committee on March 19, but the
records show there was none.
“I am naturally anxious that the good
name of the university should not suffer
from a matter which, so far as I am at
present advised, was due to no intentional
neglect of ours, but was brought about by a
desire on our part to do anything we could
to aid the object of the conference.”
The conference committee at Baltimore,
to which the association extends its hearty
thanks, was as follows:
Mr. William F. Cochran, honorary chair-
man; Rev. Harvey Johnson, D. D., chair-
man ; Dr. F. N. Cardozo, vice-chairman;
Dr. H. S. McCard, treasurer; Miss Lucy D.
Slowe, secretary; Mr. W. T. McGuinn,
halls; Mr. C. L. Davis, reception; Rev. G.
R. Waller, speakers; Mr. J. H. Murphy, Sr.,
press; Dr. William H. Welch, Mr. James
W. Hughes, Rev. George A. Griffiths, Dr.
Howard E. Young, Mrs. Jennie H. Ross,
Prof. Mason A. Hawkins, Miss Ethel Lewis,
Mrs. Charles E. Ellicott, Mr. George Dobbin
Penniman, Dr. Frank A. Manny, Bishop
John G. Murray, Rev. Charles A. Evers,
Miss Margaret A. Flagg, Mr. W. Ashbie
Hawkins, Mr. G. B. Murphy, Prof. D. O. W.
Holmes, Dr. A. 0. Reid, Mr. E. B. Taylor,
Rev. W. E. Williams, Dr. Robert Stuart
MacArthur.
It is impossible, in the space set apart
for the association notes in The Crisis, to
give any adequate account of the many
excellent speeches delivered at the seven ses-
sions. We can only touch upon some of the
subjects.
The Church and the Negro.
Sunday afternoon about 3,000 people at-
tended the first session of the conference at
the Lyric Theatre. Dr. J. E. Spingarn,
chairman of the executive committee, opened
the meeting. A message was read from
Cardinal Gibbons, archbishop of Baltimore,
expressing regret at his enforced absence
from the city, and assuring the association
of his hearty sympathy and support. The
chairman then introduced the Rev. S. L.
Theobald, a colored Catholic priest from St.
Paul, Minn., who gave a careful paper de-
scribing the Catholic Church in America in
its relation to the Negro. He spoke of its
efforts to combat slavery, and of its work
to-day to bring about more kindly relations
between the colored man and the white.
Quoting an eminent Catholic authority, he
said:	“The real color problem consists in
introducing the principles of justice and
charity among the unschooled and somewhat
bigoted portion of the white population.”
Dr. Howard A. Kelly, a Baltimore physi-
cian who has courageously stood by the
colored people of the city in their efforts
against segregation, gave this strong religious
note:
“I have no medicine,” he said, “to offer
for your specific ills, you must work out
your own problems; but I would like to talk
to you briefly about some things I consider
fundamental which will go a long way toward
helping you. If you want wealth I am not
interested; I am not even interested if you
tell me you have brilliant scholars in your
midst who clamor for opportunity. But I
am interested if you tell me that God has
put your race here on earth for a specific
purpose and that He has a place for you
in the group of His human families just
as real and just as necessary and just as
honorable as that of the Greeks, the Romans,
the Germans or the ever-boasting Anglo-
Saxons.”
The meeting closed with an address by the
Rev. R. W. Bagnall, an Episcopal rector
from Detroit. It is impossible to give here
an adequate idea of the beauty of Father
Bagnall's oratory or the nobility of his
(Photographed from the group by Meta Warrick Fuller.)
EMANCIPATION.
“Humanity weeping over her suddenly freed children, who beneath
the gnarled Angers of fate, step forth Into the world, unafraid/'
THE N. A. A. C. P.
83
thought. He held his audience spellbound.
In speaking of the historic church, he said:
“In the early church there appears to
have been no attempt at color discrimina-
tion. There were congregations which were
racial; there were congregations which came
together because of nearness of language,
because of affinity of tongue; but there was
never present at any time in the early
Christian church anything that resembled
discrimination based upon color. Some of
the greatest leaders of the church, some of
the most influential in shaping its doctrines,
were colored men. The great Augustine who,
perhaps, with the exception of St. Paul,
had the largest influence upon the life of
the church, was a colored man (who physi-
cally would resemble the speaker). The
great Cyprian of Africa was a black man.
The church honors Augustine. The church
honors Cyprian. And yet these very men,
if they lived to-day in many parts of the
country, would not be permitted to put
their feet into that which has been called the
House of God.
“In the early church the leaders were
often colored men. The church is not a
new thing brought to us after the period of
slavery. It is something we have helped to
form; something we are a part and lot of.
We have had our part in the formation of
the church of the entire world, and it is our
duty to take advantage of every possible
opportunity to bring the standard of that
church back to its Christian period, to the
equality of opportunity which knows no
color.”
Training for Life.
Mrs. Coralie F. Cook gave a thoughtful
address on the problem of the colored child.
She opened with the statement that the
colored child must meet race prejudice; he
cannot escape from it save through death.
And since this is. so, he should be given
power to meet life as it comes to him. First
he should be well born. Then he should be
trained in race pride, in the history of the
African and the accomplishments of the race.
All his latent ability should be developed.
Through music, through the drama, he should
have the opportunity for that expression
which the surrounding world tries to deny
him. And as he should be well born, so he
should be reared in a home where good
influences are dominant, and where he will
learn of the eternal wrong and the eternal
right. “Some of us begin to look upon the
National Association for the Advancement
of Colored People,” Mrs. Cook ended by
saying, “as our greatest hope of salvation.
We revere its foundation and its founders,
we are pledged to its work and its workers
with a fidelity that knows no let nor hin-
drance. And because this is so, may we not
say:	‘One thing thou lackest—a juvenile
department/ ”
Dr. Katherine B. Davis, head of the de-
partment of corrections, New York City, for
many years in charge of the State Bedford
Reformatory for Women, spoke upon the
delinquent colored girl. She showed con-
clusively from her figures for Bedford re-
formatory that delinquency is not a matter
of race, but rather that in each large group
in the community there are a number of
girls who, because of heredity or environ-
ment, are likely to be weak and unable to
resist temptation. This is true of the colored
group as of every other group in New York.
“We have an honor cottage,” Dr. Davis
said, “and in that cottage is an honor room.
The girls in the honor cottage vote as to
who shall occupy that room, who has the
best all-round record. Several times a
colored girl has occupied it. We have had
a colored girl elected as president and there
is always a colored girl on the council and
sometimes two.
“You will be glad to know,” she went on,
“that the highest per cent, of girls who have
made good after leaving the reformatory
are colored girls. Colored girls are among
the best in the institution, as they are also
among the worst. This is to be expected,
since if you can ascend to the highest you
can also sink to the depths.”
Dr. Davis ended with these words:
“There has never been any question raised
at Bedford, and I hope there never will be
any, of social equality. We are all on terms
of equality; as long as one behaves like a
lady she is to be treated like a lady, and if
she has any special talents they are to be
cultivated. In short, we have made for our
standard what ought to be the standard of
the world at large. It has been theoretically
the standard of the American people and it
will be a sorry day for America if we ever
cast it aside. We stand for individual work.
It is a person’s individual character that
counts. I can see no reason why any race
should not be admitted to terms of friend-
84
THE CRISIS
ship on the terms of individual character—
the basis on which we choose our personal
friends. I trust that we shall live to see the
day when in America it will be generally
recognized that worth is the only possible
standard which we can afford to set for
ourselves.”
Earning a Living.
Mrs. Paul Laurence Dunbar spoke upon
the colored working woman. Mrs. Dunbar
described the colored woman at work
throughout the country and dwelt upon her
numbers and the disadvantage under which
she often labors in being forced to leave her
home to supplement by her toil her husband’s
scanty income. She also described the group
of colored professional women—a group in
which she occupies a distinguished place.
The Negro and the land was discussed by
Prof. T. S. Inborden, of Enfield, N. C.
Professor Inborden recited a catalog of farms
owned by Negroes who had begun at noth-
ing and had doggedly worked to secure a
foothold on the soil. He told of one man
who in his old age occupies a very pretty
house near Enfield and cultivates a large
farm. “When I was a little boy,” this
farmer said, “my mistress had a fine dog. I
would sit hungry on one end of the piazza
while the dog ate of good things at the
other. Sometimes my mistress would come
out and kick me down and then turn and
give the dog something to eat. I resolved
then to have a better house than ever she
had. It has taken me forty years to get it,
but here it is now.”
Earning a living through the civil service
was discussed by Mr. L. M. Hershaw, him-
self a civil-service employee and one of the
association’s most earnest friends. Mr.
Hershaw gave a brief history of the Negro
in the civil service of the United States. He
pointed out that while the Negrophobists
had predicted that with the merit system the
Negro would be eliminated from the civil
service, just the reverse had taken place.
After the passage of the civil-service act of
1883, requiring competitive examinations,
the number of Negro employees increased.
To-day the Negro constitutes 11 per cent, of
the Federal civil-service employees at Wash-
ington and 4.5 per cent, of the Federal
civil-service employees throughout the
country. And these government servants,
men and women, are doing good work.
In a short paper on discrimination in the
professions, Mr. W. Justin Carter, of Har-
risburg, Pa., showed how little persecution
the professional colored man suffers in his
city, and how, nevertheless, he enters into the
struggle to eliminate prejudice, for all his
race.
Hon. Charles J. Bonaparte.
Maryland’s distinguished lawyer and
statesman, the Hon. Charles J. Bonaparte,
was received enthusiastically by the Baltimore
audience, and spoke on legal and economic
equality. Mr. Bonaparte took for his text
the Declaration of Independence, and
showed clearly that the signers of this great
document, when they declared that all men
were created free and equal, did not have in
mind white men only, but the men of all
the world. Speaking of the equality which
the declaration demands, he said:
“Legal equality is no mere dream. It is
the ideal which all lawgivers and all judges,
worthy of the name, have sought to attain,
more or less consciously and with greater
or less success, ever since Christianity be-
came dominant throughout the civilized
world. Law can be impartially administered;
all men can be equally subject to the laws
which relate to all, for these conditions are
now practically realized in free, enlightened,
progressive communities; and if they are
not realized everywhere it is because some
communities are not free, are not enlightened
and are not progressive.”
Senator Wesley L. Jones.
It would be impossible to reproduce the
delightful optimism of Senator Jones’
speech at the Lyric Theatre. It was full
of the courage of the West, the belief that
by character and hard work the American,
white or black, can win a heritage. “Do
the thing next at hand,” was the watchword
of his encouraging talk. And his impress-
ive marshalling of facts regarding the
Negro’s progress during the past fifty years
showed that, despite the handicaps that the
association is pledged to strive to remove,
ability to do the next thing had, indeed,
brought an enslaved people into an honor-
able place in the ranks of free labor.
Heredity and Racial Inferiority.
Dr. Jacques Loeb, of the Rockefeller In-
stitute, a world authority on modern biology,
was unable to be present, but sent his short,
comprehensive paper. Readers of The
Crisis will notice his caution in making
generalizations from insufficient data, a
THE N. A. A. C. P.
85
caution that marks the great scientist. We
Americans have suffered long from the “I-
know-a-colored-family” type of argument.
Here we have something different and
worthy of the most careful reading:
1.	“Modern work on heredity has
shown that hereditary characters are, as a
rule, not linked, but are transmitted inde-
pendently of each other. It is therefore con-
trary to all known facts to say that with a
pigmented skin, or with a certain type of
eyes, must necessarily be connected a lower
degree of intelligence or moral control.
2.	“Practically nothing is known con-
cerning the mechanism or the heredity of
mental and moral traits. It seems that
certain talents run in certain families—e. g.,
unusual mathematical ability, musical
ability and talent for drawing. All known
facts indicate that they are not limited to
special races, but that they are the pecu-
liarity of certain strains or families, inde-
pendently of race.
3.	“We do not even know to what ex-
tent the development of mental and moral
traits depends upon the condition of the
brain and the nervous system alone, and to
what extent upon the action of chemical sub-
stances produced in other organs of the
body in the form of internal secretions.
Until this is settled all positive statements
concerning the heredity of mental and moral
traits remain unwarranted. It is an open
question whether with equal facilities and
equal care the children of different races
would show widely different mental and
moral development; provided that the num-
ber of children chosen for comparison were
large enough to eliminate the chance in-
fluence of differences in specific talents oc-
curring in certain families.
4.	“The statement expressed so often that
intermarriage, or mixture of races, leads to
degeneracy is unwarranted and contra-
dicted, to some extent at least, by recent in-
vestigations. The experiments of Burbank,
East and Schall have proved that hetero-
gosity, or race mixture, may improve the
breed.
5.	“In view of these and other considera-
tions, the writer is of the opinion that it is
not only contrary to justice, but also con-
trary to scientific facts to deny the colored
people equal rights and, equal economic,
social and educational facilities with the
whites.”
New England.
A ringing note came from New England
when Mr. Butler R. Wilson, secretary of the
Boston branch, spoke on the growth of preju-
dice in his section and how it is met. We
hope that some time the Boston branch will
print for us an account of its many interest-
ing cases. Certainly they are handled in a
way that we should all like to emulate,
though many of us can scarcely hope to find
a like response from our community to our
appeals for justice.
Mr. Wilson ended his speech with these
words:
“Race prejudice as it now manifests itself
against the colored people must cease or
there will come an end to democracy in
America. It is idle to profess that this is a
government of the people, by the people and
for the people and at the same time to deny
10,000,000 of those people both participa-
tion in the government and equal protection
under its laws. This government is not
going to be democratic for white men and
anarchic for black men. It is going to be
one thing or the other. All democratic or
all anarchic.”
The South and New England came to-
gether when Miss Adeline Moffat, a member
of the executive board of the Boston branch,
and a resident of Tennessee before coming
to New England, spoke upon the Southern
Renaissance. Miss Moffat assured her
hearers that she found when she visited
the South a change in sentiment, a gradual
return on the part of the white people of
the South to the courtesy and high-minded
ideals of a former generation. And this
was affecting their attitude toward the
Negro race. The thoughtful Southerner was
weary of being represented in the eyes of
the world by the blatant, intolerant, ignorant
white members of his community.
Baltimore.
The Baltimore branch not only conducted
with marked success a long and important
conference, but also furnished some of its
able presiding officers and speakers. Mr. W.
Ashbie Hawkins, whose magnificent work
against segregation wins for him the admira-
tion and applause of the association, gave a
thoughtful paper on the Negro and the
courts. He showed his audience that, de-
spite adverse decisions, the court is still the
stronghold of Negro justice. His careful
86
THE CRISIS
analysis of his subject made the members of
the association realize more keenly than ever
the importance of their legal bureau and
the necessity of continuing and enlarging
their legal work.
The Rev. Garnett R. Waller contributed an
interesting talk on the color problem in
Baltimore. “Baltimore,” he said, “is a
weather vane for the miasmic Southern
simoons of race discriminations. It is a
most fruitful field for the development of
all phases of race antagonism.”
He described-the two political parties and
their advice to the Negro.
“His white Republican friends invariably
advise him to keep out of sight as much as
possible, walk easily and speak softly or
the Democrats will catch him. He is even
told not to visit the party headquarters for
fear of arousing the phobia of the opposite
party. His white Democratic neighbors dis-
avow any dislike for him theoretically, but
find him a Negro on Election Day, though
he may be a good colored person after the
election.
“But the colored voter has learned a thing
or two during the past half century, as was
demonstrated at the last election. He is
learning to vote for men and measures
rather than party.”
Washington.
The conference was fortunate in having
a large delegation from Washington. Mr.
Archibald Grimk6, chairman of the Washing-
ton branch, presided at one of the meetings
and gave an admirable talk on Negro ideals
and ambitions. He urged the Negro un-
hesitatingly to keep to the stand that is his
heritage in America—the stand that one
man is as good as another. “This,” Mr.
Grimk6 said, “is at the basis of American
manners, morals and character. It has
given the individual independence, self-
reliance, initiative, enthusiasm, a push and
a ‘get there’ spirit. It has also given him,
to be sure, a swagger, an offensive self-
assertiveness, a sort of brutal aggressive-
ness and vulgar boastfulness which are pecu-
liarly American, too. He is always certain
that he and his country are the biggest
things on earth. Nevertheless, this belief
that one man is as good as another is the
most fruitful single contribution that Ameri-
can democracy has made to mankind. The
South does not want the Negro to be an
American. It wants him to accept a lower
standard, to believe that nature has made
the black man to be a hewer of wood and a
drawer of water, but the Negro has chosen
to be simply and frankly American in his
ideals and ambitions. Like Martin Luther,
here he has taken his stand and, God help-
ing him, he can do no more.”
The association held a post-conference
meeting at Washington at which Mr. Grimk6
presided. Judge Stafford, Senator Clapp and
Dr. J. E. Spingarn were the speakers. Like
all our Washington meetings, it was a great
success.
The Last Meeting.
Many of the “Old Guard” were on the
platform at the last meeting: Dr. Du
Bois, Mr. Milholland, Mr. Russell, Miss
Ovington and Mr. Villard. Mr. Villard’s
stirring paper, “Some Traitors to the
South,” has been reported by the press
throughout the country. Never before has
any association speech received such pub-
licity. It is impossible even to attempt to
reproduce it here. Sometime we hope to be
able to give it in its entirety to our readers.
It was a speech peculiarly fitting for deliver-
ance in a Southern city, since, while begin-
ning with an arraignment of the demagogue,
it ended with a high tribute to the Southern-
ers who are upholding the Negro in his
demands for civil and political rights. “If,”
as Mr. Villard so appositely put it, “I am to
keep my hands off the Negro and leave him to
the Southerner, I make this reservation:
that I be allowed to pick the Southerners.”
The Task Before Us.
In opening the conference at Lyric
Theatre, Dr. Spingarn said:
“I consecrate these three days to honest,
sincere, unimpassioned and impartial study
of problems that concern every one of our
100,000,000 people.”
All who attended the conference found
its three days full of the promise that the
chairman of the board of directors gave.
Always the study was honest and sincere,
and if it was not always quite unimpas-
sioned and impartial it was none the worse
for that.
Near the meeting’s close, at Bethel Church,
Mr. Charles Edward Russell, one of the
founders of our movement, spoke of the
association and its possibilities. His call is
one to be answered by all who have read
through this story of our principles and
THE N. A. A. C. P.
87
who believe these principles to be true and
right.
“I look back upon the beginning of this
association when three or four of us met in
a little room to organize. To-day, after five
years, we have nearly 4,000 members. That
fact opens the way. We see our goal. We
have started now. Next year—one year from
now—we should have 10,000, not 4,000. If
in one year we can increase our membership
to 10,000, I see before me not far off a mem-
bership of 100,000, the greatest power that
there has ever been in this country for good,
for righteousness and for justice. In the
presence of such a future, what a wonderful
potentiality opens before us. I believe in
my heart and soul that this association has
been chosen an instrument for the new
abolition, for the c mpletion of the work so
magnificently begun fifty years ago, for the
erection here upon the foundations laid by
Garrison, Phillips and John Brown of a
perfect, complete temple of democracy and
freedom wherein every man and every
woman shall be tbe partaker of absolutely
equal rights under the flag.”
Memphis, Tenn.
On Monday night, May 11, in Memphis,
Tenn., the association held a public meeting
at Avery Chapel. The printed announce-
ments of this meeting contained the follow-
ing sentence:
All persons who love the truth and
dare to hear it are cordially invited.
The speakers were Dr. W.‘ E. B. Du Bois,
editor of The Crisis; Dr. J. E. Spingarn,
chairman of the board of directors of the
National Association for the Advancement
of Colored People, formerly professor in
Columbia University, New York, and Pro-
fessor William Pickens, of Talladega Col-
lege, Alabama. An enormous crowd was
present and leaped up to meet every message
of hope and courage from the three able
speakers. Those well-meaning people, black
and white, who assure the association that
the Southern Negro is not especially con-
cerned about his rights, but is happy as a
ward of the kindly white man, should have
heard the answer to this gospel of inferiority
that the Memphis Negroes gave. There were
men and women in that audience, a part of
our great humanity, and they answered the
call to battle for human rights, for the
rights of their children, as men and women
should. The association feels that its work
in the South has just begun.
OOLOBED BUSINESS HOUSES AND INSTITUTIONS IN BALTIMORE.
| cIke SPINGARN MEDAL f
<SxOxO>#<O><0*0x0»<0><O*0><y><0>^0><0^
PROFESSOR J. E. SPINGARN offers
to furnish annually a gold medal, not
to cost more than $100, and to be awarded
for the highest or noblest achievement by
an American Negro during the preceding
year, upon the following terms and
conditions:
(1)	The board of directors of the
National Association for the Advancement of
Colored People shall select five persons, who
may or may not be members of that board,
as the committee of award, and this com-
mittee shall have full charge of the award-
ing of the medal, the design, etc., and its
decisions in regard to all matters connected
with the medal shall be final.
(2)	At the annual conference on the
Negro, held under the auspices of the
National Association for the Advancement of
Colored People, this medal shall be awarded,
with appropriate ceremonies, to the man or
woman of Negro descent, citizen of the
United States, who shall have made the
highest achievement during the preceding
year in any field of elevated or honorable
human endeavor; and the committee of award
shall decide for itself, in each year, what
particular act deserves the highest acclaim;
and nothing in this section shall be under-
stood to limit their choice in any way to any
one field, whether that field be intellectual,
spiritual, physical, scientific, commercial,
educational or any other.
(3)	The committee of award may with-
hold the award of the medal in any year,
if no achievement seems to merit an award,
and in that event the committee may employ
the money so withheld for the creation of
one or more medals in the following year or
years, to be awarded as a second, third or
other prize in accordance with the same
principles.
(4)	The donor is to furnish $100 each
year to the board of directors of the
National Association for the Advancement
of Colored People until further notice, this
sum to be used for the purpose herein indi-
cated, and the sums so given shall not be
used for any purpose except that described
above, nor shall the committee of award be
authorized to spend for any medal or medals
more than already, at any given time, may
actually form part of the medal fund.
THE SPINGARN MEDAL.
(Reverse; for obverse see cover.)

r
LISTEN, O ISLES!*
[An appreciation of the Philippine Constabulary Band, organized by a Negro,
Captain Loving, through the suggestion of former President Taft.]
m gg)	By JAMES D. CORROTHERS	g)
I.
CjWIRLED overmost by Titan winds that
^ toss
Their limbs and ringlets in the eddying air,
Like death-loosed poets, with their breeze-
blown hair,
Hymning to mountains, precipice and palm,
Or sighing soft as Seraph’s evening psalm—
Startled by storm burst; stilled in love’s
deep loss,
Listen, 0 Dream Isles of the Orient Main,
Thy brown elves wake and pour lost Eden’s
choral strain!
II.
Thrilled by brown magi from the nymphean
coves,
Old nations sing as if the centuries
Sighed to the stars some old, lost planet’s
love;
Now Egypt breathes; now Babylon, Persia,
Greece,
Through these soft pipes, wake, sighing, like
the groves
Where gods have wandered, and where winds
are whispering “Peace.”
But hear the flute’s sweet eccentricities
’Neath the white moon, yon castled stream
above,
Till crash of cymbals, turban’d Turks have
known,
And sound’s fine rain, and booming of deep
drums,
(And the brown gnome who pursueth wind
gusts through
Old Triton’s wreathed shell, he wakes anew—
Bellowing, like Neptune’s rage, with much
ado),
Drown, with their ocean roar, the little bird
Whose notes, like dainty Ariel’s, laughed
that they were heard.
Was it Adonis, wandering alone,
Waked, with sweet lips, the silver piccolo,
Fair Music’s nightingale, which sang: “Mine
own,
Mine own, dear Love, dost thou not know;
not know?”
Now, o’er the hills, is it Apollo comes,
Pouring (oh, hear!) sound’s golden honey
down
The Helicon? But hark! What mellow tide
could drown
Those silver reeds whose notes go down to
some
Well’s bottom, over crystal rocks? Oh,
come!
Hear music ripple, like a breeze that’s
blown
O’er ripening fields and Daphne’s rosy vale,
Full, deep and resonant! Hear this rose
gale
Of June’s sweet Calliope wake, and all
The muses rouse from dreamy murmurings!
Hear shout and revel; romp and tipsy call
Of woodland fairies. List! What siren
sings
O’er ocean voicings—deep, divinely deep!
What billowed tempests rage; what surge
and sweep;
What equal thunderings storm Poseidon’s
throne,
And sound Earth’s black abyss!
Now Ares fires
The clouds, and far his awful symphony fills
The world. ’Tis war! Embattled Harmony
Sends Echo flying, golden, to the hills,
To win brave heights where the winged eagle
tires.
And oh! the battle music rageth gloriously!
Till, victory won, a last loud bar begins
With roll of kettledrums, like boom of bees
that drone,
On heavy wings, down sultry summer
winds,
And unmolested bays where love sees one
white sail.
III.
And what of him who leads these happy
fauns?
This Afric’ Pan who broke the crystal lip
Of Sound’s lost river; plashed there, and
let drip
Thy soul, 0 Islands, mystical and sweet,
Through reeds that bowed and nodded at
Taft’s feet,
Fair and unbroken, ’mid the clamorous
Dawn’s
Cry and appealings? Courage, 0 my race!
Courage and patience. Islands; ye shall
yet have place!
’Written at the suggestion of Dr. W. Bishop Johnson, of Washington, D C.
THE SHELL EOAD WITOH.
r
m
THE SHELL ROAD WITCH
mm	ByM.BUDD	mm
ARREN FEILDING was in
the habit of saying: “What
I can’t step over I crawl
under.” He demonstrated
this principle with success
in his business dealings,
and	determined to	apply
it to the particular case upon which his
thoughts were intent as he motored out of
the city one afternoon to Lizzie Lewis’s
home on the shell road.
This road was fast becoming the popular
drive with Florida’s winter tourists. Branch-
ing out from the city like a loop of glisten-
ing white ribbon, it wound its way into the
scented	pine woods,	dipped to the	palm-
fringed banks of the river and curved back
to the city, past tropical tangles of
palmettos and oak trees, hoary with festoons
of trailing gray moss.
Feilding,	though	caring little for the
road’s natural beauty, had with shrewd eyes
gauged	its	commercial possibilities.	The
vacant lots along the roadside bristled with
his real-estate signs, and he was exerting
every effort to turn the tide of fashionable
emigration that way.
On the banks of the river, close to where
the road broke from the woods, Feilding
had already planned building his own hand-
some home. Next to his ground was Lizzie
Lewis’s tumbled-down log cabin.
Lizzie was sitting on the doorstep when he
brought his car to a stop at her gate. Her
dull eyes expressed placid content as she
puffed at her corncob pipe and watched the
carriages and automobiles roll in a gay pro-
cession past her door.
A lazy thread of smoke curled from the
cabin’s tipsy chimney. Above the roof a
banana tree waved languorous green arms,
and a brood of chickens clucked over the
sandy little yard in quest of seed.
Feilding swung out of his auto and looked
around with the dissatisfied air of a pur-
chaser. The chickens fled with excited
squawks, while a yellow mongrel, appear-
ing from the back yard, leaped at him with
angry yelps.
If Feilding had followed his inclination
he would at once have said: “I want this
piece of land. Here is the money. Now,
get out.” But before he undertook a trans-
action he always learned all there was to
know about it. Lizzie Lewis had been a
slave. Proving childless she was put to
work in the rice fields, where she developed
into the morose old woman with whom he
had to deal. She stood between his plans
and success. Unless she and her crazy old
cabin were removed from the shell road, it
would be impossible to make the road the
ultra-residential section he wished. Holding
these facts well in hand he was too diplo-
matic to make a false move. He tossed away
his cigar and approached Lizzie with a
genial smile.
“Howdy, Aunty. Fine day, isn't it?”
Lizzie grunted, her pendulous lips still
clinging to her pipe. Feilding began a
more direct attack.
“Noticed any of my little signs cropping
up along the road, Aunty? I’m buying up
all the land I can lay hold of and paying
top prices for it. If things don’t begin
pretty soon to hum along this road my
name isn’t Feilding.”
Lizzie rolled her sombre eyes in his direc-
tion. “What yo’ drivin’ at?” she asked.
Feilding threw back his head and laughed.
“Say, Auntie, you are as keen as a razor.
I’ll bet on you for seeing through a brick
wall. Fact is,” he continued, hitching him-
self into a confidential attitude, “I’ve come
out here prepared to offer you a fancy price
for this little strip of land. I’ve bought
the land on either side, and am going to try
some great stunts in the way of growing
lawns on this confounded sandy soil. Now,
what’s your figure?”
“I’se not sellin’ mah lil’ home.”
The quiet decision of Lizzie’s mellow voice
made Feilding grit his teeth. “Here is a
case,” he told himself, “when I will have
to do the crawling act.”
“Oh, you think that, Auntie, because you
have never had the chance to close with a
good offer. Your lot is no use to me. The
best I can do with it is to sod it and run it
into my own grounds. So, you see, I’ll be
getting nothing out of the deal. What
would you say to $400?”
He leaned back to study the effect of this
upon Lizzie.
92
THE CRISIS
“I ain't sellin' mah lil' home,” she
repeated.
Feilding's choler began to rise. “Look
here, Aunty, you don't realize what you are
saying. This is the chance of your life. Your
lot in good round figures isn't worth more
than $200. As for the cabin! Why, I could
knock one up like it for $50.”
“Marse Holland gin mah ole man dis lan\
Mah ole man were de fust pusson ter dump
iyster shells on dis road. I ain’t sellin’ mah
lil' home.”
“Ha! ha! I understand. Little bit of
sentiment, hey? Well, I’m chuck full of it
myself. I've got a little boy I swear by.
Say, there's no money on earth that could
make up for his loss. Now, seeing how you
feel about it, I'll throw in another hundred.
You plank sentiment alongside solid cash
and see how you come out.”
“I'se not sellin' mah lil' home,” reiterated
Lizzie, looking past him to the sparkling
river.
Feilding lost grip of himself.
“You stubborn old fool!” he shouted, “I'll
not offer another cent. But mark me—out
of here you go.”
His florid face was purple with rage as
he got into his auto and whizzed away.
When Feilding cooled down he decided he
had been foolish to lose his temper. Lizzie
was too insignificant to prove a lasting
obstacle. He would find some means of
getting rid of her. There was no crawling
he would hesitate to do if it led to what he
wanted.
In the meantime he went on with his
building and investments. When his house
was finished he sent North for his. wife and
child and their train of servants. At inter-
vals he saw Lizzie Lewis and tried, without
success, to bring her to terms.
“I could wring her black neck,” confided
Feilding to a friend. “I know how it will
be when my wife comes. Lida is a great
stickler for style. She'll never stand for
having that old hag for a neighbor. I wish
I. had left this shell-road scheme alone. I'll
lose every cent I have put in it.”
As he predicted, Lida Feilding at once
took exception to her neighbor.
“What in the world did you build right
next to her for if you can't get her to
move?” she questioned, as they stood on
the piazza of their beautiful new home and
looked with scornful eyes into Lizzie’s
humble quarters.
“Because,” returned Feilding in a low
voice, “I can make her move.”
It would be difficult to find a more inof-
fensive neighbor than Lizzie Lewis. She
attended to her own affairs. Although her
small yard was overrunning with chickens,
she kept them and the yellow mongrel in
perfect subjection.
It took Feilding a long time to realize that
Lizzie had no need for money. The produce
of her sweet-potato patch, her hens, and
even the banana tree, provided her with
means to pay her taxes and buy hominy
and tobacco. An old stocking held a reserve
fund, from which she paid for a sitting in
Mount Zion Church, her burial-society dues,
and bought an occasional calico dress. Be-
yond these essentials what need had she for
money? That she could have a grain of
sentiment Feilding decided was impossible.
She was a stupid, insensate block, which
must be removed from his path.
Lizzie was in the habit of taking her
eggs and chickens into the market every
Saturday and returning home in the cool of
the evening, with her basket laden with
necessary purchases.
She was trudging home one evening, after
a particularly successful day, feeling at
peace with the world, when from a clump
of scrub palmettos Abe, her dog, leaped out,
a singed and blackened rope dangling from
his neck. With sharp, distressed yelps he
urged her forward, until she came to the
smouldering ruins of her cabin. One wild
cry broke from her lips. She sank to the
ground and leaned her gayly turbaned head
against the charred gatepost. Abe crouched
beside her, his eyes almost human with
sympathy.
From behind the curtains of his library
Feilding and his wife were silent spectators.
Lida's worldly heart was touched. “Oh,
poor, old thing,” she cried, with her eyes
full of tears. “Go out and speak to her,
Warren,” she begged.
“Pshaw! Darkies always act that way.
They like to ‘take on,' as they call it. She’s
not feeling half that,” declared Feilding,
with pretended indifference.
Yielding at length to his wife's entreaties,
he made an awkward attempt at consolation.
“Too bad, Aunty! That's the worst of
living out of town. The fire department is
THE SHELL ROAD WITCH
93
no help in a case like this. Cheer up. It
might have been worse. I'll stick by my
last offer, and you can buy a nice little place
farther back in the woods.”
Lizzie lifted her quivering face and looked
at him. “How dat cabin cotched fire?” she
demanded, stumbling to her feet.
Fear, undefined but real, clutched at Feed-
ing's heart. There was no mistaking her
look of understanding. To him it was full
of menace.
“I don’ want yo' money,” she added. “Dis
mah Ian', and hyah I'se gwine tuh stay 'till
1 dies.”
“She's like a maddened animal,” reported
Feilding to his wife. “Keep away from her,
Lida, and for God's sake watch son. She's
a dangerous enemy. I have a presentment
she will do me an injury through son if
she gets the chance.”
All night Lizzie sat moaning among the
ashes of her home. At sunrise she went for
help. Before night her friends had raised
a little shack, which was a cross between a
big dry-goods box and a dog kennel. In it
Lizzie took up her abode.
Feilding grew irritable and moody.
“She's a regular old witch,” he complained
to his wife. “They say she can toss a snake
over her head as if it was a stick. For
heaven's sake, keep son away from her. I
caught him the other day poking his little
fingers through the cracks in the fence and
calling: ‘Hillo, An' Nizzie.’ She has a way
of watching him with those bloodshot eyes
of hers that gives me the creeps. She is
biding her time.”
<fI cannot believe she would harm son,”
said his wife.
“Don’t give her the chance. Now, mind
me, Lida. I know what I am talking about.”
,The hot weather was beginning, and glad
of it, as an excuse, Feilding made arrange-
ments for taking his wife and child North.
The day before leaving he and Lida went
into the city to conclude some final prepara-
tions. While there they decided to spend
the night in the city and attend the theatre.
They 'phoned their decision to the servants,
with special orders regarding son. But
Feilding, unable to -shake off the uneasy
feeling which haunted him, to satisfy himself
that all was well, motored home again. .
He found the house deserted. From the
garage came the “Pink Lady” waltz, horned
from the gramophone. The sound of trip-
ping feet and laughter testified that the
servants were holding high carnival.
“They are a good-for-nothing lot,” be
muttered. “I'm glad they are to be shipped
North to-morrow.”
He was hurrying across the garden when
his eyes caught the glint of son's yellow curls
against the crimson cushions of the ham-
mock, which was swung beneath a huge oak
tree.
Feilding's face softened, as it always did
when he saw his child. He moved with
caution to the hammock, smiling to himself
as he pictured the little fellow's waking de-
light at seeing him.
Son's bare white arms were thrown above
his head. His forehead sparkled with
moisture, and his blue eyes were rolled up-
ward with a dreadful, unseeing stare.
Sick with horror, Feilding saw coiled upon
the child's breast a large rattlesnake. While
he stood in agonized indecision he heard a
slight rustling, and discovered Lizzie Lewis
peeping from behind the shrubbery.
Feilding's heart seemed to stand still. He
remembered the stories he had heard of
Lizzie’s power over snakes.
“So,” he groaned, “this is her revenge.”
The tree hid him from Lizzie. She was
creeping forward on hands and knees, her
eyes fixed on the snake, whose ugly head
began to rear with slow, sinuous movements.
Lizzie was close to the hammock when with
a venomous hiss the reptile darted forward
to strike. In a flash she held up, before
the child's defenseless face, a pine board.
When the writhing fangs struck it she jerked
the board away, and Feilding saw they were
imbedded in the soft wood. The snake rolled
harmless to the ground.
Sweat was pouring down Feilding's ashen
face.
Lizzie lifted the child in her arms, rocking
him back and forth with soft croonings.
“Aunt * Lizzie ain' gwine tuh let miffin'
hut her baby chile. Dem triflin' white trash
ain' no good tuh min' lil' babies. Dat old Mr.
Rattler bin roostin' in dat tree fur de las'
year. Shut yo' eyes, honey. Aunt Lizzie
am right hyar.”
In obedience, son's heavy eyelids drooped
and, struggling back from a stupor of fright,
he laid one weak hand against her cheek.
She caught it to her lips. All the love of
her hungry heart, all the humble sweetness
of her nature, was expressed in the little act.
HISTORY and FACTS
“The Negro in American History.” By John \V.
Cromwell. 284 pages. The American Negro
Academy, Washington, D. 0.
E.	CROMWELL has given
us, in a volume of 300
pages, a 76-page history of
the Negro in the United
States and the biographies
of ten distinguished per-
sons of Negro blood in the
162 other pages. To this are added fourteen
pages of appended notes, a bibliography,
chronology and index.
In his foreword Mr. Cromwell states his
purpose as follows:
“It is not my purpose to write a history
of the United States, nor of any period of
that history. The Negro is so interwoven
with the growth and development of the
American nation that a history of him as
an important element, during little more than
a century, of which he has been a factor,
becomes a task of peculiar difficulty. In the
few pages that follow, mine is a much more
simple and humble task—to indicate some of
the more important points of the contact of
the nation and the Negro; to tell how the
former in its evolution has been affected
by the presence and status of the latter; and
to trace the transformation of the bondman
and savage, stolen from Africa, to his free-
dom and citizenship in the United States, and
to his recognition of such in the fundamental
law, and by an increasing public sentiment
of the country.”
Mr. Cromwell’s historical chapters are,
with one exception, poor and inadequate.
That exception is his excellent and well-
known essay on the early convention move-
ment. The biographies are more satisfactory,
and Mr. Cromwell has here much interesting
and much new material. Young colored men
and women may study these lives with
interest.
The book is tastefully gotten up and well
printed on heavy paper.
“Living Conditions Among Negroes in the Ninth
Ward." A social sujvey. By Charles Wesley
Burton, New Haven, Conn.
This study contains facts and figures
which show decided progress among Negroes
in the section studied, which contains one-
half of the colored population of New
Haven. The investigation was carried on by
house-to-house canvassing, over a period of
more than two years, and 330 householders
were studied.
A majority of these people came origin-
ally from the South. Practically every
occupation is engaged in by the bread-
winners, and 82 per cent, of them work fifty-
two weeks in the year. The largest numbers
are engaged as: Laundresses, fifty; janitors
and porters, forty-four; waiters, thirty-five;
laborers, thirty-one; cooks, twenty-three;
teamsters, twenty-two; domestic servants,
twenty, and seamstresses and dressmakers,
thirteen.
More than 97 per cent, of the families are
communicants in some church; 179 families
have 403 children—an average of 1.22
children per family for 330 families. The
average illiteracy is low, about 6 per cent.
No case of illiteracy was found in a
child more than 10 years old. Most of
the children between 6 and 14 years of age
are in school, and many older ones are in
high school and college.
More than 43 per cent, of the breadwinners
receive from $10 to $14 in wages per week;
twenty-eight receive $6 or less per week and
thirty receive $25 or more. The average
weekly income of 330 families is $13.91, and
they pay an average of $10.78 per month for
rent (though 5 per cent, own their homes).
They have nearly $40,000 in the bank, and
carry insurance to the value of $232,961.
Sixty-three of these families own $192,000
worth of taxable property, and 330 families
occupy 1,671 rooms, an average of 5.06 rooms
per family, or 1,51 per capita.
Mr. Burton finds here the same conditions
of discrimination and poor housing condi-
tions, with wretched environment making for
disease and vice, as are found practically
everywhere. And yet crime is not nearly so
prevalent as in the Italian and other foreign
districts, and Negroes ask for and. receive
almost no charity.
B
“Duplication of Schools for Negro Youth.” By
W. T. B. Williams. Occasional papers, No. 15, of
the trustees of the John F. Slater Fund. 22 pages.
There has been practically no attempt at
general thoughtful supervision and oo-ordind-
HISTORY AND FACTS
95
tion of Negro education. Every agency
suited to this has been systematically
diverted from its purpose. Church boards
of Negro education have been created, but
they have worked almost exclusively within
sectarian lines. Southern school authorities
have usually had just as little to do with
the Negro school system as possible. The
Southern Education Board, designed first for
Negro education, then for all education,
ended by working “for white people only”
with the cheerful assent of its Northern pro-
moters. The General Education Board, under
Wallace Buttrick, as soon as it was sure of
its millions, began to disabuse the minds of
black folk of any assumption they may have
had that the board had the slightest interest
in them or intended to help except in the
most casual and niggardly way.
The result is a shamefully neglected and
inadequate Negro public-school system in
the South, supplemented by private schools
which furnish primary, secondary, vocational
and college training. This pamphlet shows
the confusion and lack of co-ordination in
this private-school system. The chief diffi-
culty lies in the distribution of the schools.
They tend to congregate in centers and leave
large sections unsupplied. There are not
too many schools—there are not enough; but
they are unintelligently distributed.
“The reasons for. the multiplication of
schools at given centers are many. In the
early days in Negro education railroad
facilities in smaller places were. poor, and
the markets and stores were not well de-
veloped outside the larger cities and towns.
So the schools were practically forced into
the better places for the sake of the ordinary
conveniences.. They also went to the cities
to get proper police protection.
“In time a number of less worthy
motives led to the duplication of schools
now so apparent. Denominational rivalry
and proselyting played their parts.”
The result is summed up as follows: “In
Alabama, for instance, twenty well-known
colored schools, representing ten denomina-
tions, are crowded into seven centers, includ-
ing the four largest cities of the State. In
Georgia twenty-six schools, representing
seven denominations, are situated in ten
cities. Of these Atlanta has six, Augusta
has three, Macon has three and Savannah
two. In North Carolina nine cities contain
twenty-one schools, representing six denomi-
nations. The same number of faiths has
fourteen schools in six cities of South
Carolina, while thriving cities like Anderson,
Spartanburg and Florence have no schools of
this type. Louisiana has practically all of
her strong schools in New Orleans. And in
the broad State of Texas at least four cities
have two Negro schools apiece.”
Even in the cities where the schools are
congregated they cannot serve the larger
constituency, but become largely local pub-
lic schools on which the white community
calmly shoulders its burden.
“Owing to the lack of ample provisions
for colored children in the elementary
schools of the South, the private schools are
justified in carrying elementary courses.
This is particularly true in cities like Macon,
Ga., and New Orleans, La., where the public
schools do not take the colored children
beyond the sixth grade, and in cities such as
Atlanta, Augusta and Savannah in Georgia,
where many hundreds of colored children are
given no seats in the public schools at all.”
“In many instances the rivalry resulting
from the duplication of schools in a given
city not only works harm to the private
institutions, but stifles the development of
the colored public schools.”
“An extreme case of killing off of public-
school interest by rival denominational
schools is furnished by Rock Hill, S. C.
‘ Here a nominal sum of public money is
given to each of four private schools for
the instruction of the public-school children.
The city conducts no public school for colored
children.”
“It is a" great pity that the colored
children in the elementary and secondary
grades in the several schools in the city must
be taught in comparatively small groups at a
high relative cost and lowered efficiency. For
example, in Birmingham, Ala., 986 ele-
mentary students are distributed among five
private institutions. In Selma 1,162 pupils
in the grades are divided among three
private institutions. In Atlanta 1,256 such
students are scattered around among five
schools, and in New Orleans 1,189 among
three institutions.”
This pamphlet will do good if it results
in effort to redistribute and strengthen the
private schools; and it will do harm if it
results in reducing the number of private
schools and crippling them, with no effort
to increase public-school facilities.
96
THE CRISIS
ADVERTISER
When Buying Hair Goods
ask your dealer for Green’s Creole hair. It
not only keeps the crimp, but is the best on
the market. If your dealer cannot furnish
you with our goods, send your order direct
to us and we will be pleased to fill it.
Switches, puffs, pompadours, transforma-
tions and anything pertaining to hair goods.
1-stem Switches..................$ -50
5^-ounce 3-stem Switches...........75
^4-ounce 3-stem Switches........ 1*00
22-inch Switches................ 1-50
24-inch Switches................ 2.00
26-inch Switches................ 2.50
28-inch Switches................ 3.00
These prices not including gray hair.
Our workmanship is the best, and we feel
sure that after using our grade of goods, we
will have you as our regular customer.
Send in your samples. Perfect match
guaranteed. If not satisfactory we will
refund your money.
Greeks Hair Goods Co.
Room 58
6 West Randolph Street - - Chicago, 111.
Homes in Long Island!
Few people realize the wdnderful possibilities of Long Island
property, the rapid growth of that section of the city and its wonderful
future.
WE ARE SELLING GOOD-HOMES IN CORONA, with all
improvements, only five cents carfare to New York. Corona is in the
very center of Greater New York, and in a few months will be reached
by the rapid transit lines of Manhattan, giving to the people of that
section of the city a five-cent carfare to any section of Manhattan.
The only place within thirty minutes of Times Square, Grand
Central Station or the Pennsylvania Station, where the man of small
means can get a modern home with all improvements at a moderate
cost. We would be glad to have you visit Corona at our expense.
Corona is one of the highest elevations in New York City, has an
excellent car service, good schools, excellent water supply and the best
place in all New York for children. For full particulars as to price
and terms address
L. S. REED & COMPANY
142 Hunter Avenue -	-- -- -- - Long Island City
Some choice investment lots for $50 on reasonable terms
PUBLISHERS’ GHAT

The annual Educational Num-
ber of The Crisis, with pictures
of leading colored scholars, will
appear in July. Information as
to prize winners and college
honors will be welcomed.
Remember that our editions
are usually exhausted early and
persons wishing this special
number should order in time.
Mention The Crisis
$300 Monthly for You!
I want Bqaaro men and women to act &3 my Special Sales
representatives In every county. I want hustling, energetic,
ambitious persons, anxious to make big money, who are
willing to work with me. I want to show YOU how to
MAKE $300 PROFIT and EXPENSES EVERY MONTH. I
want to show YOU how to make more money easier, quicker,
more sure and certain than you ever did before In all your
life. I want'you to advertise, sell and appoint local agents
for the most sensational seller In fifty years—the startling
Invention that has set the entire country agog—
The Robinson Folding Bath Tab
Here's an absolutely new invention. Nothing else like It.
Has takBn the entire country by storm. Solves the bathing
problem. Gives every home a modern, up-to-date bathroom
In any part of the house. No plumbing, no waterworks
needed. Take full length baths in any room; up
stairs, bedroom, sick-room, parlor, kitchen, any
bouse. The Robinson Tub folds In small
roll, handy as an umbrella. Rivals expensive
bathroom. Constructed of the wonderful
"Steeline" material. I tell you It's
GREAT 1 Remember It Is needed in every
home. Means modern bathing facilities
for all the people. A godsend to humanity.
: up stairs, down
any room In the
testing your Tub, can say It surely Is a wonder and gives
entire satisfaction."—O. P. Morgan. Ohio.
I want you to handle your county. I'll furnish demonstrat-
ing tub on a liberal basis. I'm positive, yee, I’m absolutely
certain, that you can make bigger money In a week with me
than you ever made In a month before. Hustlers, east, weet,
north, south, are simply coining money. Orders, orders,
everywhere. For remember, fully 70 per oent. of the people
have no bathrooms. You can take the orders right and left.
Quick sales and Immense profits. Two sales a day means
$300 a month profit. Stop and realize the tremendous pos-
sibilities. Look around you. Be amazed. Your neighbors,
friends, relatives, have no bathrooms. They are eager for
one; never had the opportunity to Install one. You step In:
show the tub. Sale's made, profit sure.
No Experience Needed
Why, I don’t care If you never sold anything before In all
your life, you can make good, big money with me. You're
honest? You're square? Of course you are. You've got grit,
ginger, gumption? Of course you have. You wan’t to make
good? You want to make big money? Sure you do. Well,
that's all I ask. If you are willing to do your best, backed
by my co-operation and help, you can blast out the hlggeet
financial success of your career. I grant credit, you know, so
money can't hold you back. I furnish sample on liberal plan.
Demonstrating
Tubs
Furnished
Exclusive
territory
100% Profit
Sensational Sales
Success!
What others are doing Y'OU can do. Read these records: I
N. T. Smith, Ohio. $90 weekly profit. Meyers, Wls., $250
first month. Beasley. Neb., $35 profit first four hours.
Newton, Cal., $60 In throe days Mathias, Fla., $120 In two
days. Corrigan. N. Y.. $114 In sixty hours. C. H. Tremor.
Indiana. $35 profit in six hours. W. F. Hlncard, New Mexico,
$35 In two days. Average men. average sales, average towns.
Undeniable proof of the big money to be made by hustlers
everywhere. The Robinson Tub Is badly wanted and eagerly
bought.
Customers' Words of Praise
See how pleased these people are: "Delighted with Tub:
will recommend it."—Mrs. Jennie Hall, Mississippi. "Bath
Tub O. K. Just right size."—Wm. Benz, Ohio. "Our Tub
has been in dally use. Fine."—Mrs. J. E. Randall. New
York. "Have been using your Tub. Could not do without
It-"—Mrs. G. C. Money, Iowa. "Robinson Tub first-class."—
Chas. A. Massle. Washington. "Tub arrived. Children and
all delighted."—C. R. Loucks. Louisiana. "We all took a
bath. It sure Is a daisy."—O. L. Morris, Oregon. "After
I help you out and back you up. So don't let doubt drag
you bade. You have nothing to lose. My other men are
building homes, starting bank accounts. So can youl
Mail This Coupon Today
Yes, sign this coupon right now. Don't send me a single
penny. Don't send me any return postage. Don't send me any
remuneration at alL Just sign and mail the coupon. That
Is all I ask. By sending the coupon you give me the chance
to prove every word I have sold. Let me prove every state-
ment. Let me tell you the whole enthusing, ambition-
awakening story of a tremendous world-wide success. Will
you do this? Of course you wlIL Sign and mail the coupon
NOW I
H. S. ROBINSON, President
The Robinson Cabinet Mfg. Co.
82 Factories Building	TOLEDO, OHIO
WalkenriUe, Ontario, Canada
Guaranteed for 10 Years! Cannot Leak
Every Robinson Folding Bath Tub that leaves our factory la guaran-
teed for ten years against any defect In manufacture. This Is due to
the remarkable Invention, "Steeline," the material used In the construc-
tion of the Robinson Folding Bath Tub. Constructed with this material
the tub can be	and Is guaranteed for 10	years.	Should	It prove defec-
tive a new tub	Is Immediately furnished	in its	place.	This guarantee
protects every customor for a period of 10	years.	Steeline	makes the tub
soft and pliable,	yet strong and lasting.	The tub cannot spill, tip nor
splash. Just as strong and durable In use as the ordinary enameled tub.
but In convenience so far superior. In buying the Robinson Tub. cus-
tomers take absolutely no risk. They are guaranteed against defects by
our liberal, binding guarantee. Families everywhere boost the Robinson
Tub to their friends, which makes tho sales come fast and sure for our
representatives. Surely the Ideal bathing equipment without one objec-
tionable feature.
Empties Itself
Remember this: The Robinson Folding Bath Tub. equipped with our
special Outlet Emptying Device makes the tub positively self-emptying.
How convenient and handy this la. After the bath, no fuss and bother
emptying the tub. By the time you're dressed the tub Is emptied ready
to lay away. All the conveniences of a modern, up-to-date bathroom,
and yet the Folding Tub does not take up space or be In the way
when not In use. No special room need be set aside as a bathroom unless
desired. Any room can be made Into a bathroom In five minutes’ time.
Is it any wonder users are delighted and agents are enthusiastic? The
Robinson Folding Bath Tub demonstrates Its value Immediately upon
ahowlng. It Is the Ideal bathing equipment for every home, city, country
or town, for camping, etc., as well as the one desirable tub for the sick-
room. bedroom, parlor, living room or kitchen: any room can be made
into a bathroom In a Jiffy. All this without plumbing, water works or
extra expense. After the Initial cost there are no further expenses to
pay. Every home everywhere Is Just waiting for the Robinson Folding Tub
I
I
I
I
I
1
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
H. S. ROBINSON. Pres.
Robinson Cabinet Mfg. Co.
82 Factories Bldg., Toledo, O.
$300 a month looks good to me. Write
me and tell me all about your special
plan and how I can make this big money
acting as your representative. This ob-
ligates me in no way.
Name.
Street and No.
Town
State.
Mention Thx CxisiS
98
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
HAZEL
The Story of a Little Colored Girl
By MARY WHITE OVINGTON
Author of “Half a Man”
Price $1.00 net. Postage prepaid, $1.08. For
sale through our agents and at The Crisis
office, as well as at leading book stores.
CRISIS PUBLISHING COMPANY
70 FIFTH AVENUE	NEW YORK CITY
Atlan t& University
Studies of the
Negro Problems
17 Monographs	Sold Separately
Address:
ATLANTA UNIVERSITY CONFERENCE
Atlanta University, Atlanta, Ga.
The Curse of Race Prejudice
By James F. Morton, Jr., A. M.
An aggressive exposure by an Anglo-Saxon
champion of equal rights. Startling facts and crush-
ing arguments. Fascinating reading. A necessity
for clear understanding and np-to-dato propaganda.
Belongs in the library of every friend of sooial
justice. Price 26 cents. Send orders to
JAMES F. MORTON, JR.
244 West 143d Street -	New York, N. Y.
FREE TO MINISTERS ONLY
Swedenborg’s “Arcana Oelestia,” Vol. I., and one
of the following for 80 cents to cover postage:
“The True Christian Religion,” “The Apocalypse
Revealed," “Divine Love and Wisdom," “Heaven
and He.ll,” “Divine Providence," and “Biography
of Swedenborg,” by Worcester.
The books are cloth bound and run in pageB from
277 to 1100.
REV. L. G. LANDENBERGER
3741 Windsor Place -	-	- St. Louis, Mo.
STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP,
MANAGEMENT, etc., of “THE CRISIS,’’
published monthly at 70 Fifth Avenue, New
York, required by the act of August 24, 1912.
Editor:	W. E. Burghardt Du Bois, 70
Fifth Avenue, New York City.
Business Manager:	Augustus Granville
Dill, 70 Fifth Avenue, New York Oity.
Publisher:	The National Association for
the Advancement of Colored People, 70
Fifth Avenue, New York Oity.
Owners: Tho National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People, a corpora-
tion with no stock.
Known bondholders, mortgagees and other
■ecurity holders, holding 1 per cent, or more
of total amount of bonds, mortgages or other
securities: None.
A. G. PILL, Business Manager.
Sworn to and subscribed before me this
25th day of March, 1914.
ROBERT N. WOOD.
Notary Public,
(Seal)	New York Co.
Valuable Books at Bargain Prices
Big 22c. Library of Popular Books for men,
women und children. Samplo copy 10c. Circulars
free. SUPERIOR SALES CO., Box 171, Milford,
Ohio.
Sworn
25th day
(Seal)
Mention The Crisis
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
99
Masterpieces of
Negro Eloquence
Edited by Alice Moore Dunbar.
The one volume that contains the best
speeches of fifty-one of the ablest Negroes of
the United States, England, Africa and France,
from 1818 to 1913. The wonderful eloquence
of the most powerful Negro men and women
! of the world is contained in this book. Nothing
more interesting and inspiring has ever been
written.
If you would know of the history of the
race, appreciate the sacrifice for principle,
understand the struggle for liberty, and prop-
erly value the oratorical achievement of the
Negro, you should place this book in your
library.
The “Masterpieces of Negro Eloquence” will take you back to 1818, when
Prince Saunders in his fascinating style eloquently pleaded for the abolition of
slavery. It will give you the speech of Henry Highland Garnett, the first Negro
ever asked to deliver a sermon in the United States House of Representatives;
the speech of Frederick Douglass, who in 1852 with unexcelled eloquence
demanded at Rochester to know, “What to the Slave Is the Fourth of July?";
the speech that made Booker Washington famous; an estimate of Toussaint
L’Ouverture, by James McCune Smith, that ranks with Wendell Phillips’s famous
i eulogy; Charles M. Langston’s defiance of the Fugitive Slave Law, delivered in
1859; Judge Ruffin’s famous eulogy of Crispus Attucks, a speech that should be
read by every Negro boy and girl.
These are but a few of the gems culled at random from this great book.
The best of our present generation is well represented.
This is a book that is a library, a reference book and an historical work,
an indispensable addition to the library of every intelligent Negro. A book that
shows in the best manner the best that the Negro has done.
It is carefully edited, well printed and thoroughly indexed, bound /-------------
in red and green silk cloth binding, 512 pages, gold top, uncut pages. / Oriiii Coupon
We want every reader of The Crisis to have a copy of this /
book. We have set aside 50,000 copies which we are going to sell /
to The Crisis readers by allowing them to pay 50 cents down f
and 50 cents monthly for four months.	•
Do not delay; sit down immediately, clip this coupon /
send it to us
you by return mail.
CUT OUT AND
MAIL NOW.
The Douglas* Pub.
Co., 509 No. 4th St.,
Harrisburg, Pa.
Enclosed find 50c., for
and send it to us with 50 cents, and a copy will be sent • which send me a copy of
“an..	---'---Of N
The Douglass Publishing Company
HARRISBURG, PA.
t The Masterpieces or Negro
f Eloquence." I promise to pay
/ 50c. each month until $2.50 is
, paid. Title of the boolc to
/ remain with you until the sum
» of $2.50 is paid.
Name___________________________
Address —_________________ ■ - —
Mention The Crisis
100
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
SCHOOL OF BEAUTY CULTURE AND HAIM DRESSING
Kelsey's TTair Dressing, Hair Grower, Scalp Tonlo and Face Lotion have no oquai, Price, 50c •»ch.
Guaranteed under Food and Drug Act, June SO, 1006.
KELSEY’S
Telephone, Momingside 8162
143 West 131st St.
NEW YORK
Manicuring, Shampooing, Hair Dressing, Marcel War-
ing, Facial and Body Massage, Hair Making, Ohlropooy,
etc., scientifically taught. Unlimited practice in panox
day and night. Pupils taught at home, If desirea.
Diplomas. Special Summer Course, 07.60 up. Send ior
booklet. Mme. A. Carter Kelsey, Gen'l Instr.; Dr. Samaei
A. Kelsey, Chiropodist, Prosidont and Gen'l Manager.
TF Ar’IHTDCI The new efficiency era calls
for the modern way of
selecting teachers, through a live agency that
furnishes the connecting medium in a business way,
saves time of school officials, relieves teachers of
the embarrassment of job hunting and covers the
whole country.
We have had calls for teachers from Alabama,
Arkansas, Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida,
Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland,
Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, Oklahoma,
Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas,
Virginia and West Virginia.
Our list of teachers covers even a wider territory.
THE MUTUAL TEACHERS' AGENCY
1335 T Street, N. W.	Washington, D. 0.
WANTED
500 Negro families (farmers preferred)
to settle on FREE Government Lands in
Chaves County, New Mexico. Blackdom is
a Negro colony. Fertile soil, ideal climate.
No “Jim Crow” Laws. For information
write
JAS. HAROLD COLEMAN
Blackdom ----- New Mexico
No. 24 Southern Buggy
Highest Grade
A Value Unequaled. Soldonji.oo
Profit Margin	J^om
Factory to User
Write for prices
and other styles.
Send for catalogue.
C. R. PATTERSON
L SONS.
Qresnflsld, Ohio
Largest Negro Carriage concern In the United States.
$25.00 PER WEEK
may be made in commissions by parties handling
“History of Negro Soldiers in Spanish-Americtn
War" combined with “History of the Negro Race.
400 pages, 50 illustrations. Price $1.26 net.
Address:	E. A. JOHNSON
164 Nassau Street...............New York
REGALIA
Start a Mail Order Business and Make Money
You can operate in your own home during spare
time. The parcel post has opened up the doors of
opportunity to YOU. Others ore making $20 to
$500 a week. Why can’t you? By our method
you can start with $5 and up. We offer you thirty
live, money-making mail order plans. You can
make 96 cents profit on every dollar order. We
furnish circulars, printed matter and place your
advertising at lowest rates. Send 10 cents for
complete outfit. Do it to-day—Now!
MAXL DEALERS WHOLESALE HOUSE
617 Dearborn Street	Chicago, HL
Advertising Sales Agents Wanted at Once
Young men and women. Previous experience un-
necessary. Liberal pay while you learn. Permanent
position. _ Opportunity for advancement. An inde-
pendent income. Brilliant opportunity for trust-
worthy young men and women. Vacancies are limited.
Answer immediately. Must have representatives in
every city and town in U. 8. where not yet repre-
sented. Act quickly. Write at ONCE, enclosing 10
cents for full instructions and information. Address
Employment Department.
WATERS BROS., 97 Wickliffe Si.. Newark, N. J., U. S. A.
FREE TO EVERY WOMAN
who writes, one copy of “Ladles' Cyclopedia of
Health and Beauty.'' This book contains informa-
tion indiKpensublo lo every woman; on every subject
women are moat interested in. Tells how to
cultivate health and beuuty; what to use and how to
use it.
ALEXANDER SPECIALTY CO.
491 Highland Avenue	Passaic, N. J.
A Race Enterpriae
Manufacturing Badges,
Banners and Supplies
for all Fraternal and
Church Societies. Cata-
logue upon request.
CENTRAL REGALIA CO.
Job. L. Jones, Pres.
N. E. Cor. 8th and Plum fits.
Cincinnati, Ohio
If You Plan to Visit
New York This Summer
For study, sightseeing or pleasure
and desire quiet, respectable accom-
modations with the best private
families, write the Housing Bureau
of thq National League on Urban
Conditions Among Negroes, at 127
W. 135th Street, New York.
Our Service Is Absolutely FREE
Mention The Cuisis
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
101
MILES M. WEBB
School of Practical Photography
All branches of photography taught.
Terms reasonable. Service efficient. Three
courses:	Amateur, intermediate, profes-
sional. Register now.
3519 So. State Street	Chicago, 111.
Telephone Douglass 6688
Made $30 First Day
B. Baa ha, of Bell Island. New-
foundland. did this with our
CHAMPION
Minute Photo Machine
That beginners make suoh profit
at the start, shows that no ex-
perience Is needed In this won-
derful money-making business.
Bobt. Book, willow Hill. Pa., took
In 136 inoneday. Vernard Baker,
Holbrook. Neb.. 129.90. Jas. F.Wende. Ashton. Idaho,
(28. C.V. Lovett. frt- Meade. Fla., mad# (80 to on* day. Tbeaa
'(Jmonlala are (oat a raw of many hundred* v
—w	_     _______________ have on file.
*lo tores In ¥*o*t Claids and on Buttons all the rage
at Fairs. Carnival*, Plonlos. Resorts, Schools. De-
pots, Factories, on Streets—anywhere—everywhere.
Our Champion Camera takes plotures sire
Ilfx2fe and buttons. Finishes complete photo In W
second*: 200 an boar. No dark room. Eaalaat. quick e*t.
Dlnfaat money-maker known. Snail Investment. About 660
profit on each doUarTya taka Ip, Bevour umrSoaa. Writ# at
oooa for Free Book. Testimonial* and Liberal Offer.
AMERICAN MINUTE PHOTO CO.
2214 Ogden Ave., Dept. A202, Chicago, 111.
wm
AUTO MAI I u tad op. Bivolvirs, 11.7$ (no up-|
______ n Aik your dealer or land for pirilc-|
PlQTfll Q Dlin. FRED BIFFAB A CO.,180 I.,
■ Iv I WWw DstrbornSt.. Chlcsgo, Osp!. 102	1
20 Inchss Wlds
19 Inchss Long
Only 4-45
The wonderful Stay-Tyda patent process, owned by a*,
prevent* the delicate flue* from breaking. Yet they coat
you lea* than you pay el*«where for ordinary willows.
Stay-Tyde Willow Plumes
23 In. wide 22 in. long 8.90 26in. wide 25 in. long 7.90
25in. wide 24 in. long 6.90 29in. wide 27 in. long 9.90
30 in. wide 27 in. long $11.90
French Cnrl Pinnies
17 in.. Special, $1.9$
IS	“	“	2.49
19	** Ex.wide, 8.00
20	“	“	7.80
22	“	“	10.00
We have established a world-
wide reputation on our No.401 mag-
nificent 13-inch French Curl Plume,
made of rich, gloaay. beat male
■lock, with wide, broad ftbree and
heavy French head.
Biacx. whits and colors
Send 25c to cover express charges and we will ship
any of above C.O.D. for free examination. Or. send
full purchase price and we will send all chargee pre-
paid. Money promptly refunded if for any reason you
are not satisfied.
Send for f rsa catalog of French or Willow Plumes.
Ostrich Banda and Aigrettes, and get a complete f25
Courts in Millinery, Dyeing, Cleaning, Carling, ate.
SOUTH AFRICAN IMPORTING CO.
1341 Wabash Are. Dept. >30 CHICAGO
(^oEoxcA agents v2.aex.taA cAba.x^vifxana. to
tfL i ia AcmanA fax. out	cjraAc
^Latest styfeS arid	far iaAicS or
ejentfemen, Witfx or v2ltfraut aAAxcss, iOO far 50
cenb or. 50 fox 25 cants Gutf.t free. ^Laxc^e
commission, fexcCusi^c tar/xitori^. C5fV oxAaxs
fifflcA poomptf*^ TOoitc fox AompfcA anA taxms
dJia^JCousc of (^frovJnincj, ^fnAianapoIia, 3exA
WANTED
AGENTS WANTED—Big leller. 88 to $5 per
day. Coats you from 10 to 20 cents; sells for
35 cents and up. Sample free for the asking.
G. A. ALBUBY & CO., P. 0. Box 414, Bristol, Pa.
Agents for The Crisis. Dignified
work. Address: 70 Fifth Avenue,
New York.
Mention Thb Crisis
102
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
LEGAL DIRECTORY
Residence 2546 Michigan	Office Phone
Bell Phone E-2161	Home 58 Main
C. H. CALLOWAY
Attorney and Connselor-at-Law
Notary Publio
117 W. 6th Street	Kansas City, Mo.
WoDoa:{™6104-W
HARRY E. DAVIS
Attorney-at-Law	Notary Public
1607 Williamson Building -
- Cleveland, O.
PERSONAL CARDS
Telophono 5277 Morningside
DR. GERTRUDE E. CURTIS
Surgoon Dentist
188 W. 135th Street -	New York City
H.	HENRY* HARRIS
Architect
Corner 8th and Princess Streets
Wilmington ------ N. C.
Office L. D. Telephone 3297 Market
Residence L. D. Telephone 5277-M Market
GEORGE A. DOUGLAS
Counselor-at-Law
Booms 613-614, Metropolitan Building
113 Market St., Cor. Washington, Nowark, N. J.
General Practice	Notary Public
WILLIAM R. MORRIS
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
1020 Metropolitan Life Building
Minneapolis -	--	--	--	- Minn.
BROWN S. SMITH
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Offices:	Suite 610, Sykes Block
Minneapolis................--	- Minn.
GEORGE W. MITCHELL
Attorney-at-Law
908 Walnut Street
Philadelphia.......................
Tel. 5437 Fort Hill	Cable Address, Epben
EDGAR P. BENJAMIN
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
34 School Street -	-	-	- Boston, Mass.
Telephone Connection
W. Ashbie Hawkins	George W. F. McMechen
HAWKINS & McMECHEN
Attorneys-at-Law
21 East Saratoga Street -	-	- Baltimore, Md.
Phones: Office, Bell 4059; New 420-M
Residence, New 783-A
THOS. E. GREENE, JR.
Attorney and Connselor-at-Law
Notary Public
Maloney Block ...	- Youngstown, Ohio
William H. Austin	Edmund O. Austin
Law Offices of
AUSTIN & AUSTIN
St. Paul Building, 220 Broadway, New York
Suite 7—H. I. J, K
Telephones: -7400, 5865, 6366 Oortlandt
B.	F. BOOTH
Attorney-at-Law
57 N. Second Street
Memphis.............................Tenn.
THOMAS W. HOLMES
Attorney-at-Law
431/2 Decatur Street	Atlanta, Georgia
WILLIAM L. BELL
Architect
138^4 Auburn Avenue -	- Atlanta, Ga.
J. E. ORMES
ACCOUNTANT
Audits	Systems
Business information by mail. Open for
engagements July and August
Box 26, Wilberforce University
Wilberforce, O.
WANTED—Position as teacher by young
man of college training and teaching
experience. Position in high school or
college preferred.
Address: EDUCATION 9, % The Crisis
Mr. Alfred Elis Du Bois, commercial
agent at Jeremie, Haiti, offers his services for
all kinds of business and exportation and
importation between Haiti and the United
States.
Telephone 4214 Greeley
BRANIC’S EXPRESS
ANDREW J. BRANIC, Proprietor
Packing and Shipping—Goods Forwarded to All
Parts of tho World
Orders by mail or 'phone receive prompt attention.
Trunks stored, 25c. per month.
469 Seventh Avenue	New York
WANTED
Hustler in each community to take orders
for Pierce’s High Grade Toilet Soaps
Once tried, always used.
C.	E. PIERCE, Springfield, O., R. 9
	
What Are Colored Men Doing in Business?
Read the COMMERCIAL COLLEGE
OUTLOOK—a Monthly Magazine
Published by Commercial College students
of Howard University, Washington, D. C.
Fifty Cents for School Year
Michael Jones, Editor-in-Chief
Mention The Crisis
A Selected List of Books
PRICE INCLUDES POSTAGE Q3 OJ
The Quest of the Silver Fleece. W. E. B. Du Bois.$1.50
House Behind the Cedars. Charles W. Chesnutt..... 1.65
Hazel. Mary White Ovington....................... 1.08
Autobiography of an ex-Colored Man. Anonymous.... 1.40
The Testing Fire. Alexander Corkey............... 1.35
Lyrics of Lowly Life. Paul Laurence Dunbar....... 1.40
Marrow of Tradition. Charles W. Chesnutt......... 1.65
The Sport of the Gods. Paul Laurence Dunbar...... 1.65
Norris Wright Cuney. Maud Cuney Hare............. 1.50
A Narrative of the Negro. Lelia Amos Pendleton... 1.65
Souls of Black Folk. W. E. B. Du Bois............ 1.35
Race Adjustment. Kelly Miller.................... 2.15
History of the Negro. B. G. Brawley.............. 1.35
Half a Man. Mary White Ovington.................. 1.12
Mind of Primitive Man. Franz Boas................ 1.65
Aftermath of Slavery. William Sinclair........... 1.65
John Brow'N. W. E. B. Du Bois.................... 1.45
Facts of Reconstruction. John R. Lynch........... 1.65
Story of the Negro. Booker T. Washington. . ...... 325
Masterpieces of Negro Eloquence.
Edited by Alice Moore Dunbar................. 2.70
Flower o’ the Peach. Percival Gibbon............. 1.45
The Colored Inventor. Henry E. Baker...............15
A Child’s Story of Dunbar. Julia L. Henderson......25
A d dr ess
THE CRISIS
70 Fifth Avenue -	-	-	-	-	- New York City
CAPE MAY, N. J.
This magnificent hotel, located in the heart of the most beautiful seashore resort in the world;
replete with every modern improvement;, superlative in construction, appointments, service, and refined
patronage. Orchestra daily. Oarage, bathi houses, tennis, etc., on premises. Special attention given to
ladies and children. Send for booklet.	E. W. DAJLE, Owner.
The, Art of Printing
AS EXEMPLIFIED IN OUR WORK EMBODIES THE FOL-
LOWING POINTS OF MERIT:
1. Stationery
2. Form
(«)	Neat
(A)	Attractive
(c)	Quality
(«)	Polite
(b)	Business
(e)	Social
(a)	Artistic
ib)	Correct
ic)	Prompt
We Print THE CRISIS
ROBERT N. WOOD, Printing and Engraving
202 EAST 99th STREET Telephone: Tcnox 6667	NEW YORK
Mention The Crisis
The CRISIS
Vol. 8—No. 3	JULY, 1914	Whole No. 45
COMMENCEMENT
ONE DOLLAR A YEAR
TEN CENTS A COPY
HAZEL
The Story of a Little Colored Girl
By MARY WHITE OVINGTON
PRESS COMMENTS
From “The Brooklyn Eagle ”, Brooklyn,
N. Y.
Miss Ovington here reveals a gift by
no means common—the gift of writing
in a style that will appeal to the child
mind, a style that is clear, direct and
picturesque. Any child, regardless of
race or color, would be interested in the
little book, and many a grown-up would
find the hour spent in its perusal one of
entertainment and refreshment.
From “The Four Seas", Boston, Mass.
A good child’s story is the hardest to
write, because most authors of juvenile
books think that being silly is the cor-
rect method of writing a child’s story.
“HAZEL” is a book which every sane-
minded person of larger growth will
read with pleasure and because its
heroine arouses a feeling of sympathy,
every reader will be better disposed to-
ward the colored people. This book
ought to endure as long as “Alice in
Wonderland,” for it is the best child’s
story written since Selma Lagerhof’s
“Adventures of Nils.”
From “The Amsterdam News”, New
York City.
“HAZEL” is a story of juveniles for
juveniles that is certainly good enough
for the grown-up, who, in the rush of
growing up, has not lost all memories
of that delightful period . . . The story
is full of pathos and tenderness and is
informing to boot, and is good reading
for both races.
From “The Springfield Republican”,
Springfield, Mass.
The genius and sympathy of women
has had much, thus far, to do with the
lightening of the black man’s burden,—
beginning with Harriet Martineau and
Mrs. Stowe, and much remains for
them to do. Mrs. Howe had her share
in the “Battle Hymn” and many women
since have lent a hand or lifted a voice.
Mary White Ovington who writes this
volume . . . has a closer and clearer view
of the character of colored citizens and
their children, North and South, than
Mrs. Stowe had of the slaves whose
chains she helped to break, and she
writes with less energy, but she pro-
duces the result aimed at, in the mind of
the comparative few who will read her
book. If it could be read and appreci-
ated by Speaker Clarke and the women
of the South their views on “segrega-
tion” would be modified.
From “The Living Church ”, New York.
The novelty of a story in regard to
colored children and intended for
colored children is at hand in “HAZEL”
by Mary White Ovington, author of
Half a Man. It is no “story with a pur-
pose” nor does it purport to raise, much
less to solve, a problem; yet if any one
can read it and not have the awful
pathos of the life of our colored people
bear down upon him anew as a terrible
burden which we Americans must bear,
he must be less than human. If we only
understood 1
Price $1.00, net. Postage extra.
THE CRISIS PUBLISHING COMPANY
70 FIFTH AVENUE	NEW YORK CITY
Mention The Crisis
THE CRISIS
A RECORD OF THE DARKER RACES
PUBLISHED BY THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE, AT 70 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK CITY
Conducted by
W. E. BURGHARDT DU BOIS
AUGUSTUS GRANVILLE DILL, Business Manager
Contents Copyrighted, 1914, by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People
Contents for July, 1914
PICTURES
COVER. Original Drawing. By John Henry	Adams.	Page
A MISSIONARY OF EDUCATION AND HIS LAST CLASS...... 130
PORTRAITS OF SIXTY-ONE RANKING COLORED GRADUATES. 129
ARTICLES
COLLEGES AND THEIR GRADUATES IN	1914....... 129
A YEAR’S WORK: Reports of The National Association for the Ad-
vancement of Colored People at the Baltimore Meeting. 140
MY HOUSE AND A GLIMPSE OF MY LIFE THEREIN. A Story.
By Jessie Fauset................................ 143
DEPARTMENTS
ALONG THE COLOR LINE............................... Ill
MEN OF THE MONTH................................... 117
OPINION............................................ 119
EDITORIAL..........................................  125
THE BURDEN......................................... 145
TEN CENTS A COPY; ONE DOLLAR A YEAR
FOREIGN SUBSCRIPTIONS TWENTY-FIVE CENTS EXTRA
RENEWALS: When a subscription blank is attached to this page a renewal of your subscrip-
tion is desired. The date of the expiration of your subscription will be found on the wrapper.
CHANGE OF ADDRESS: The address of a subscriber can be changed as often as desired.
In ordering a change of address, both the old and the new address must be given. Two weeks’
notice is required.
MANUSCRIPTS and drawings relating to colored pecple are desired. They must be accom-
panied by return postage. If found unavailable they will be returned.
Entered as Second-class Matter in the Post Office at Ncui York, N. Y.
108
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
Atlanta University
Is beautifully located in the City ot Atlanta,
Ga. The courses of study include High
School, Normal School and College, with
manual training and domestic science. Among
the teachers are graduates of Yale, Harvard,
Dartmouth and Wellesley. Forty-five years
of successful work have been completed.
Students come from all parts of the South.
Graduates are almost universally successful.
For further information address
President EDWARD T. WARE
ATLANTA, GA.
Knoxville College
Beautiful Situation. Healthful Location.
The Best Moral and Spiritual Environ-
ment. A Splendid Intellectual Atmos-
phere. Noted for Honest and Thorough
Work.
Offers full courses in the following departments:
College, Normal, High School, Grammar School and
Industrial.
Good water, steam heat, electric lights, good drain-
age. Expenses very reasonable.
Opportunity for self-help.
Fall Term Begins September, 1914.
For information address
President R. W. McGRANAHAN
KNOXVILLE, TENN.
The fifteenth annual session of the State
Summer School lor Colored Teachers of
both sexes at the
Agricultural and
Mechanical College
GREENSBORO, N. C.
LINCOLN INSTITUTE
Jefferson City, Missouri
Founded by the Negro soldiers of
the 64th and 65th Regiments. Sup-
ported by the State of Missouri.
One of the best-equipped schools in
the country for the education of Negro
boys and girls. Normal, Collegiate,
Agricultural and Industrial Courses.
Normal diplomas carrying with them
the degree B. Pd. are life certificates to
teach in the public schools of Missouri.
The degree A. B. conferred upon those
who complete the collegiate course.
Four teachers of Music: Voice Culture,
Piano, Violin, Band and Orchestra
Practice. Elocution, Athletics, Draw-
ing and Art.
Board $9.50 a month. Tuition $3.00
the year to Missouri students. All
others pay $13.00 a year. Catalog free.
B. F. ALLEN. A. M., LL. D.
President
MOREHOUSE COLLEGE
(Formerly Atlanta Baptist College)
ATLANTA. GA.
College, Academy, Divinity School
An institution famous within recent years
for its emphasis on all sides of manly develop-
ment—the only institution in the far South
devoted solely to the education of Negro
young men.
Graduates given high ranking by greatest
Northern universities. Debating, Y. M. C. A.,
athletics, all live’ features.
For information address
JOHN HOPE, President.
ST. MARY’S SCHOOL
will begin June 29, 1914, and continue five
weeks.
In addition to the regular work, an attractive
lecture course has been arranged, in which
will appear some of the most distinguished
white and colored educators in the country.
Board and lodging for the entire session, $12;
tuition 25 cents per subject, unless other ar-
rangements have been made.
An Episcopal boarding and day school for
girls, under the direction of the Sisters of St.
Mary. Address.
THE SISTER-IN-CHARGE
611 N. 43d St.	W. Philadelphia, Pa.
FISK UNIVERSITY
NASHVILLE, TENN.
Founded 1866	C. W. Morrow, Dean
Limited accommodations. Send $1 and have
room reserved in advance.
For further information write at once to
JAMES B. DUDLEY, President, or
D.	J. JORDAN, Director,
A. & M. College, Greensboro, N. C.
Thorough Literary, Scientific, Educational
and Social Science Courses. Pioneer in
Negro music. Special study in Negro history.
Ideal and sanitary buildings and grounds.
Well-equipped Science building.
Christian home life.
High standards of independent manhood
and womanhood.
Mention The Crisis
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
109
The National Religious Training School
“I cordially commend the school’s interest and needs to all who believe
in the Negro race and in our obligation to help promote its intellectual, moral
and religious uplift.”
—Rev. Dr. Charles H. Parkhurst, New York City.
IT IS'MORE THAN A MERE SCHOOL
IT IS A COMMUNITY OF SERVICE AND UPLIFT
Its influence is destined to be felt in all sections of the country in improved
Negro community life wherever our trained workers locate.
Settlement workers, missionaries for home and foreign mission fields. Y. M. C. A.
and Y. W. C. A. secretaries and district nurses receive a comprehensive grasp of their
studies under a Wellesley graduate and experienced co-workers and actual every-day
practice through the school’s SOCIAL SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
We aim also to create a better qualified ministry.
Industrial training, advanced literary branches, business school.
Thirty-two acres; ten modern buildings; healthful location.
We can accommodate a few more earnest, ambitious students.
Communities requiring social workers should write us.
For catalog and detailed information address:
PRESIDENT JAMES E. SHEPARD
National Religious Training School	Durharq, N. C.
The school has no endowment fund and must raise a yearly maintenance fund
of $15,000 for running expenses. Won’t you help us this year?
The Cheyney Training School for Teachers
CHEYNEY, PENNSYLVANIA
Under the management of the Society of Friends. Beautifully located,
healthful, well appointed, and within easy reach of a great variety of educa-
tional institutions, public and private, extending from West Chester to
Philadelphia; representing a wide range of educational problems and
practice.
This school offers to young colored men and women who have a reasonable
secondary school preparation, and who earnestly desire to become teachers,
carefully graded courses in academic work, domestic science, domestic art,
manual crafts and agriculture. For teachers of experience and intending
teachers it offers also a six weeks’ summer-school course, extending from
July 1 to August 12. Tuition is free. Board, lodging, heat, light and
laundry privileges are offered for nine months for $100. The charge for
the same during the summer-school course is $15. Write for particulars to
LESLIE PINCKNEY HILL, Principal
Mention The Crisis
110
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
Morgan College and Branches
JOHN O. SPENCER, President
MORGAN COLLEGE, Baltimore, Md.
LOCATION: Central in great college town between
North and South.
COURSES: Preparatory, Normal, Music, Advanced
Education, Collegiate, Appropriate Degrees.
INSTRUCTORS: College and University trained.
Seven Colleges and Universities represented in
Faculty.
DORMITORIES: For a limited number, furnished.
TERMS: Very reasonable.
DEAN: Rev. Charles Edmund Young, D. D.
PRINCESS ANNE ACADEMY, Princess Anne, Md.
(The Eastern branch of the Maryland Agricultural
College.)
LOCATION: The famous Eastern shore of Mary-
land, Somerset County.
COURSES:	Preparatory, Normal, Industrial, Do-
mestic Science, Music.
INSTRUCTORS: Collegiate and Technically trained.
DORMITORIES'. Carefully supervised, furnished.
TERMS: Free tuition; other expenses moderate.
PRINCIPAL: Rev. Thomas H. Kiali, A. B.
VIRGINIA COLLEGIATE and INDUSTRIAL IN-
STITUTE, Lynchburg, Va.
LOCATION: On beautiful hill, suburb of growing
city.
COURSES: Preparatory, Normal, Domestic Science,
Gardening, Music.
INSTRUCTORS: College trained; carefully selected.
DORMITORIES:	Furnished; steam heat; accom-
modations for 50 girls; carefully supervised.
TERMS: Within the reach of all.
PRINCIPAL: Frank Trigg, A. M.
ALL SCHOOLS OPEN SEPTEMBER 28, 1914.
RELIABLE, LIVE,
RESPONSIBLE MEN
who can sell real estate can MAKE MORE
than $200 PER MONTH acting as AGENTS
for the sale of our properties in MUSKOGEE
and TAFT, OKLAHOMA. The real coming
country where there are opportunities and
openings for all. Write us to-day, giving
your age and experience, and we will offer
vou a FINE PROPOSITION WHICH
WILL MAKE YOU MONEY. Address
OF INTEREST TO VOCAL STUDENTS
TONE-PLACING AND
VOICE- DEVELOPMENT
Points explained, viz.: Breath in
Singing, Trying the Voice, the
Soprano, the Mezzo-Soprano, the
Contralto, Tenor Lcggicro or High
Tenor, the Baritone, the Bass,
Parts of the Vocal Apparatus, the
Mouth, the Tongue, Position when
Practising, Position when Singing,
How to Practice, Good Rules for
Singing.
Comment from the world-renowned conductor of
the Paulist Choir of Chicago, 111., whose choir has
just received the first prize awarded at the. Singing
Contest held in Paris, on May 25, 1912:
“Dear Mr. Tinsley:
“I take great pleasure in commending your very
useful and succinctly written book on ‘Tone-Placing
and Voice-Development.’ Your own appreciation of
the psychology of singing and the fundamental prin-
ciples of the art you have cleverly reduced to a
simple system.	Cordially yours,
“Father WILLIAM J. FINN, C. S. P.,
Director Paulist Choristers of Chicago.”
From “Musical Courier,” N. Y.: “A very practical
little book is ‘Tone-Placing and Voice-Development,’
by Pedro T. Tinsley. It contains some very excellent
material and vocal exercises, and should be in the
hands of all vocal students.”
From “Music News,” Chicago, 111.: “Accordingly
his ‘Practical Method of Singing’ is a most concise
and practical little manual, containing many valuable
vocal exercises. It cannot fail to be helpful to all
ambitious vocal students.”
HELPED HIM GREATLY
“Since I practised your exercises of ‘Tone-Placing
and Voice-Development’ my voice is more resonant
than it has been for years. It seems to me that I
am getting a new voice.” Prof. John T. Layton,
Director Coleridge-Taylor Musical Society, 1722 10th
St., N. W.. Washington, D. C.
PRICE $1.00
Address the publisher: Pedro T. Tinsley, 6448 Drexel
Avc., Chicago, 111.; or Clayton F. Summy, 64 E. Van
Buren St., or Lyon & Hcaly, Adams and Wabash
Avc., Chicago, 111.
ANNOUNCEMENT
REEVES REALTY CO.
Department C
217 Flynn-Ames Bldg. Muskogee, Okla.
IWANTED
Agents for THE CRISIS. Dignified work.
Address : 70 Fifth Avenue, New York.
We desire intelligent persons to act as our local
distributors in communities where we are not already
represented. Would be pleased to hear from students
and teachers during vacation, or any reliable person
able to furnish best references. Salary/ $9 a week.
SOUTHERN DISTRIBUTORS COMPANY
Odd Fellows Auditorium	Atlanta, Ga.
(Trade Mark)
ANY SPARE TIME?
WHY NOT TURN IT INTO MONEY ?
Our agents are making $10.00 per day and more, selling
our new Negro picture, “A Joyful Welcome Into
Heaven,” the finest picture ever produced with the
Negro as a subject. Pleasant agreeable work. Sells
at sight! Write today for particulars, or send 15 cents
stamps or coin for 50 cent sample and agent’s terms.
Money back if not satisfied at first glance!
The Douglas Specialties Co.
Department K
3548 Vernon Avenue, ;; Chicago, 111.
Mention The Crisis
THE CRISIS
Vol. 8—No. 3	JULY, 1914
Whole No. 45
MUSIC AND ART
' I ''HE Paris edition of the Herald reports
the following concerning the young
American artist of color: “Mr. Robert Hem-
mings, of Boston, has had his painting, ‘Les
Deux Soeurs/ accepted at the Salon of the
Societe des Artistes Francais. Mr. Hem-
mings recently received a bronze medal for
his water-colors at the exhibition at Ivry.
^ An exhibition of sculpture by the artist,
Mrs. Meta Vaux Warrick-Fuller, was held
May 17-22, at her home in South Framing-
ton, Mass. The exhibition consisted of
twenty-nine pieces of great variety, and was
viewed by people of distinction who came
from Boston, Worcester and other nearby
towns. The Framington Evening News
states: “Mrs. Meta Vaux Warrick-Fuller’s
work is coming to be recognized in artistic
circles as bearing the true stamp of genius.
Mrs. Fuller is very modest about ner work
but she is full of enthusiasm and the ‘divfne
fire,’ and not the least pleasing part of the
occasion was the privilege of meeting the
artist herself.” The reviewer speaks- in de-
tail of the collection, and lays stress on the
ability of Mrs. Fuller to portray action, mo-
tion and life. Among the relief portraits is
that of the composer, S. Coleridge-Taylor,
and “The Pianist” after Mrs. Maud Cuney
Hare. A bust of Dr. Fuller and one of the
elder children are wonderfully life-like. The
model of the group made for the New York
Emancipation Proclamation Commission in
1913 caused much interesting comment and
praise.
<J The Orpheus Club of Philadelphia, Pa.,
conducted by the famous distinguished mu-
sician, Dr. Horatio Parker, of Yale Uni-
versity, held its third private concert at the
Academy of Music on the 25th of April.
The club was assisted by Mrs. Logan Feland,
soprano, and Mr. Ellis Clark Hamman,
pianist. Numbered on the excellent and
varied program of modern compositions
were, “A Viking Song” by Coleridge-Taylor,
and “Swing Along” by Will Marion Cook,
while Mrs. Feland sang, as an encore, “The
Birth of Dawn,” the words of which are by
Paul Lawrence Dunbar. Honorary members
of the club are David Bispham, Dr. Frank
Damrosch, Dr. George W. Chadwick and
Dr. William W. Gilchrist.
<J The Morning Choral Club, the leading
choral society composed of white women of
St. Louis, Mo., gave, at their last concert
of the season, “She Dwells by Great Ken-
hawa’s Side” by Coleridge-Taylor. “Elea-
nore,” a song by the same composer, was
recently sung by the well-known Irish tenor,
Mr. John McCormack, at his recital at the
Academy of Music in Philadelphia.
At a recent Sunday service in Weightman
Hall, of the University of Pennsylvania, the
program was composed entirely of music
from the works of Harry T. Burleigh, R. N.
Dett and Coleridge-Taylor.
Mr. T. Theodore Taylor, pianist, gave a
recital at the Institutional Church, Chicago,
111.,	assisted by Mrs. M. Bradus Anderson,
soprano, and Mr. Harrison Emmanuel, vio-
linist. Mr. Taylor’s program consisted of
numbers by Mozart, Chopin, Grieg, Debussy.
Schumann and Beethoven.
112
THE CRISIS
Q On May 14, at the Mosaic Temple Thea-
tre, Little Rock, Ark., the Music Department
of the Arkansas Baptist College, one of the
most progressive institutions of the South,
gave an interesting performance of “A Nau-
tical Knot,” an operetta by William Rys-
Herbert, under the direction of Miss Mattie
A. Booker. Both the singing and acting
were of unusual excellence.
The exercises of commencement week at
Wiley University, Marshall, Tex., began on
May 1st with a Pianoforte Recital by Miss
Helen Dean Littlejohn, graduate of both the
piano and college departments, assisted by
Miss Cynthia Holmes, soprano, and Miss
Vera Hunt at the second piano. The Wiley
Music Department, which is one of the best
in the Southwest, has 115 pupils enrolled
and five teachers who represent Fisk Uni-
versity, Oberlin Conservatory and the New
England Conservatory of Boston.
“The Freedom Ring,” a picture of slave
days by Eastmon Johnson, brought $750,
the highest price of the evening at a sale in
the American Art Galleries in New York re-
cently. It is a picture of “Little Pinky,”
the slave child of a white father, whom Henry
Ward Beecher sold into freedom in his
church in 1860. In the contribution was a
valuable ring, the gift of Rose Terry Cooke,
which Mr. Beecher placed on the child’s
finger. The picture shows the child sitting
before an open chest gazing at the ring.
<J Miss Blanche Esther Williams, soprano,
presenting compositions by colored com-
posers, was the soloist at the fifth annual
Star Concert of St. Augustine’s Episcopal
Church at Harrisburg, Pa. Miss Williams
was assisted by the Tuskegee quartette and
Mr. Wood, reader. Miss E. Vivien Williams
was the accompanist.’
^ A capacity house greeted the musicians
of color who presented the municipal con-
cert program at Montclair, N. J., at the Hill-
side Auditorium on May 18. The concert
was one of a series of national programs.
Augustus Granville Dill was the pianist for
the occasion and played from the works of
Coleridge-Taylor.
On May 3rd, under the leadership of
Miss Wilhelmina B. Patterson, the Prairie
View Normal Chorus, composed of one hun-
dred singers, from the Prairie View State
Normal Institute, gave the last municipal en-
tertainment of the season at the city audi-
torium, Houston, Tex., before a mixed au-
dience of over 5,000 people. With but few
exceptions, the songs were Negro Spirituals
and, by special request, typical American
Negro songs by the older American School
of white composers.
<11 The Hampton Choral Union, composed
of the colored church choirs in Hampton and
under the direction of Mr. R. Nathaniel Dett,
presented Mr. Harry T. Burleigh, baritone,
at Hampton on May 20. In addition to the
large student body, one thousand people
greeted this well-known singer.
<3 The Clef Club Symphony Orchestra and
Glee Club of New York, composed of 145
members with Daniel Kildare as President
and James T. Brymn as conductor, gave the
fourth anniversary concert on June 4. The
club was assisted by Miss Abbie Mitchell,
Tom Fletcher and Harvey White. Carlos
Sebastian, a society dancer, who is now at
the Jardin de Danse, appeared.
<1 Kemper Harreld, violinist, who has charge
of the Music Department of Morehouse Col-
lege in Atlanta, Ga., sailed with Mrs. Har-
reld on June 4 for Berlin, where he will
study during the summer.
PERSONAL.
pROF. HELEN C. MORGAN, for forty
years a teacher at Fisk University, Nash-
ville, Tenn., died on May 21. About five
years ago she was retired on the Carnegie
Foundation for the Advancement of Teach-
ing.
<J Yolande Du Bois was graduated from the
grammar department of the Ethical Culture
School, New York City, in June. Accom-
panied by her mother, Mrs. W. E. B. Du
Bois, she will sail for England in August
where she will enter Bedale’s School, Peters-
field, Hampshire.
<J Benjamin T. Coard, a colored farmer of
Accomac, Va., who died in February, was
born in slavery. His first wages were fifty
cents per day and at his death he left prop-
erty valued at $50,000.
tj. Mrs. Francis Jane Brown, the mother of
Miss Hallie Q. Brown, of Wilberforce, died
on April 24 at her home in Xenia, O. She
was ninety-five years old.
DRAMA.
T>ERT WILLIAMS is playing in Zieg-
feld’s Follies of 1914, which have re-
cently opened on Broadway in New York
City for the summer. During the winter he
has been playing in vaudeville and posing
for moving pictures with great success.
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
113
J.	Leubrie Hill’s Darktown Follies played
at Hammerstein’s Theatre in New York the
first week in June. The original two-hour
play, “My Friend from Kentucky,” in which
the company played to immense audiences at
the Lafayette Theatre in New York, was cut
to a forty-minute sketch and, unfortunately,
suffered in the cutting For this reason, the
“Follies,” which, it was expected, would re-
main at Hammerstein’s for a long run,
played there only one week. It will now go
to the Bijou Theatre, on Broadway.
<1 “The Smart Set” with S. Tutt Whitney
drew good audiences at its recent two weeks’
run at the Lafayette Theatre, New York,
which ended June 7. The first week the com-
pany played a two-act sketch, “The First
Mr. President,” and the second week ap-
peared in “The Mayor of Newton.” Begin-
ning June 8 the program at the Lafayette,
which is again partly under colored manage-
ment, will consist of vaudeville and moving
pictures.
Q The Unique Theatre of Detroit, which was
formerly in the hands of a white man, has
been purchased for the sum of $6,000 by
E.	J. Johnson, a colored man, and will be
managed by another colored man, J. W.
Hamilton.
SOCIAL UPLIFT.
XT0WARD UNIVERSITY, Washington,
D.	C., was represented in the College
Women’s Section of the Suffrage parade in
Washington, D. C., on May 9, by eight girls,
as large a delegation as any University had.
In contrast to the courteous treatment re-
ceived by these girls was that accorded the
colored suffragists in Philadelphia who, as
a matter of discrimination, it is said, were
compelled to march with the Socialists,
tj Miss Mary Parker, a colored girl, in fhe
recent Field Day sports of Simmons College,
Boston, broke the college record for the run-
ning broad jump aind equalled the record
for the standing broad jump.
^ Plans for a state home for incorrigible
colored girls in Jefferson City, Mo., have
been approved. The estimated cost of the
home is $89,000.
<1 An industrial home for girls and a chil- •
dren’s nursery, promoted by Mrs. Annie M.
Brooks, is expected to be ready for use soon
in Newport News, Va.
CJ Colored men of New Haven, Conn., are
attempting to raise $50,000 for a Y. M. C. A.
building.
<J The Women’s League for Moral Uplift,
an organization of colored women in Phila-
delphia, has signed a petition asking for the
abolition of “Ladies’ Entrances” to saloons
and also that saloons be moved from the
neighborhood of schools.
For the first time colored nurses have
been placed in responsible positions as at-
tendants in the state hospitals of Kansas.
Q At the graduation exercises of the Chil-
dren’s Choirs of the Presbyterian and Metho-
dist churches in Clinton, N. J., five of the
thirteen prize-winners were colored children.
There are only six colored pupils in the sixty
pupils comprising these choirs.
<J A. Vidal, a colored man, crippled in one
hand, rescued an eight-year-old white child
at New Iberia, La., from drowning.
Among the six winners of the State High
School Track Meet at Crawfordsville, Ind.,
from the Washington High School, two
colored students won eleven of the eighteen
points made.
Q The Capital City Directory, a hand book
of the religious, social, fraternal and other
activities of the colored people of Nashville,
Tenn., has been published by the National
Baptist Publishing Board.
<J Colored women of Princeton, N. J., are
planning the erection of a tablet to the mem-
ory of Oliver Cromwell, a Negro who fought
in the war of the Revolution. He fought in
the battles of Trenton, Princeton, and Mon-
mouth and his discharge was written in Gen-
eral Washington’s handwriting. He died in
1853.
Q The colored department of the General
Hospital Training School for Nurses in
Kansas City, Mo., held its fifth commence-
ment on May 25. There were three grad-
uates.
Q The athletes of German East Africa are
said to be able to jump over a bar eight feet,
five inches high which is one foot, eleven and
three-eighths inches higher than the world’s
record for the high jump.
Q The Reverend C. D. Hubert’s congregation
at Rochester, N. Y., which was but recently a
Baptist mission, has finished paying $8,000
for a lot and the building of the Sunday
School room of its new church. The Rever-
end Hubert was the first Negro graduate of
Rochester Theological Seminary. He was
president of the class of 1912.
Q Dr. E. P. Roberts, of New York, has es-
tablished a scholarship at Tuskegee Institute
for a worthy student and a prize of $10 for
114
THE CRISIS
the student who makes the greatest progress
in the physical culture classes.
Q Plans for establishing a Y. M. C. A. for
colored men in Rochester, N. Y., are on foot.
<J The alumni body of Lincoln University
has dedicated a scholarship of $3,000 to be
known as the I. N. Kendall Memorial
Scholarship.
CJ Among the five indictments returned by
the Grand Jury of Louisiana against Bush
Jarratt, a white special officer in Shreveport,
was one for shooting at and assault with a
dangerous weapon upon William Stewart, a
Negro.
Twenty colored men, none more than
twenty years of age, landed with the bat-
The State and Tri-State Medical Associa-
tion of Tennessee, Georgia and Alabama met
in Atlanta, Ga., May 12-14.
Cl The quadrennial session of the General
Conference of the Methodist Episcopal
Church convened in St. Louis, Mo., in May.
A committee was appointed to decide upon
the place to establish the C. M. E. Publish-
ing House, which is to be moved from Jack-
son, Tenn. Two new bishops were elected,
A. R. Carter for the Arkansas and Texas
Conference and J. C. Cleaves for the Missis-
sippi and Alabama Conference. Bishop
Isaiah Lane, the founder of Lane College in
Jackson, Tenn., was retired at his request.
Bishop George W. Stewart was found guilty
COLORED BLUE JACKETS AT VERA CRUZ.
talion of Blue Jackets from the United
States warships and fought unceasingly at
the recent taking of Vera Cruz. There are
few colored men with the ships’ fighting
forces at present but each of five warships
landed at least four men and held others as
substitutes in cases of emergency. These
men continued on shore after the fighting
was over preserving order. One was slightly
injured, but neither he nor the others
dropped out notwithstanding the intense
heat and scarcity of water.
MEETINGS.
THE annual meeting of the Negro Press
Association will take place in Musko-
gee, Okla., during the month of August.
of misappropriation of funds and deposed.
The colored Alabama Medical, Dental and
Pharmaceutical Association met in its annual
session at Decatur, Ala., May 11 and 12. The
North Carolina Association will meet in Ra-
leigh August 25-27.
<| The commencement exercises of Atlanta
University, Atlanta, Ga., took place May 21-
27. On May 25 the Nineteenth Annual Con-
ference discussed “The Negro and Crime.”
At the morning session Mr. L. M. Hershaw,
of Washington, D. C., and Mr. Philip Welt-
ner, Secretary of the Prison Association of
Georgia, spoke on “Prevention.” In the
afternoon came the annual Mothers’ Meet-
ing and exhibition of the Gate City Free
Kindergarten Association and at the evening
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
115
session Judge W. W. Tindall, of Atlanta,
spoke on “Juvenile Courts,” and Mr. G. W.
Moore, of Morehouse College, spoke on
“Probation.” May 26 was alumni day and
$870 was contributed by graduates. Rev.
George L. Paine, of New Haven, was the
commencement speaker.
CJ The Southwest Virginia Conference of
Negro workers met at Christiansburg Indus-
trial Institute on May 20.
CJ Two hundred students received diplomas
at Tuskegee’s commencement. Practical
demonstrations of the industrial work were
given at the commencement exercises. Con-
siderable donations were made to the school
by the alumni.
CJ The annual meeting of the Women’s
State Baptist Convention, of which Miss A.
L. Waytis is organizer and president, met in
Boston from May 28 to 31.
CJ The annual meeting of the Colored North
Carolina Teachers, Assembly will be held
June 10-14 at Shaw University, Raleigh.
CJ An efficiency and welfare congress at
which matters of interest to ministers were
discussed was held in Birmingham recently
under the direction of Bishop Wilbur P.
Thirkield.
CJ The fiftieth annual meeting of the Massa-
chusetts Dental Society was held in Boston
recently. Dr. Alfred P. Russell, a colored
dentist, conducted one of the clinics.
CJ The Armstrong Association of Philadel-
phia, a white organization, met in the sixth
annual meeting in May. Reports show that
$35,000 worth of work has been provided
during the year by this association for col-
ored men.
CJ The ninety-fourth session of the New
York annual conference of the A. M. E.
Church met in Albany on May 27. The re-
ports showed that more than $100,000 •had
been raised by the church during the year for
all purposes.
CJ The National Independent Civil and Po-
litical Negro League held a meeting of pro-
test against segregation in Philadelphia on
May 18. Senator Wesley L. Jones, of Wash-
ington, was the principal speaker.
FOREIGN.
MR. H. A. JOSEPHS, a colored man,
who is Assistant Attorney-General of
Jamaica, is now acting Attorney-General.
CJ The first ordination to the priesthood in
the Negro Theological Seminary in Uganda,
Africa, took place lately. Two Negro priests
were ordained.
CJ In the Palladium Theatre, London, a
woman recently caused a disturbance by ob-
jecting to the presence of Kafirs in the
audience.
Q Madison R. Smith, the southern white
man who was appointed as Minister to the
black republic of Haiti at the beginning of
the present administration, has resigned.
Arthur Bailly-Blanchard, another white man,
has been appointed. Haiti’s internal affairs
and foreign relations are, at present, in a
critical state. The Haitian debt is about
$35,000,000 and more than half of this is
owed to the French government. France
and Germany want to establish an interna-
tional commission form of government for
the purpose of handling the Haitian income,
but the Haitian government objects to this
claiming that it has always been able to meet
the interest on the debt.
COURTS.
'T'HE Rev. G. H. Simms, a colored minis-
ter of New York City, received $100
damages from Spiro Matiato, proprietor of a
small restaurant, who refused to serve Mr.
Simms with two other men.
CJ The jury gave a verdict of $150 and costs
in the case brought against the Comstock
Amusement Company, Cleveland, O., by
Miss Hattie Hairston, a young colored wom-
an, who with Miss Maud York was refused
admittance to the orchestra at a matinee per-
formance. Miss York, whose case was set-
tled out of court, received $50 damages.
CJ The question as to whether ex-slaves can
inherit is now before the Supreme Court of
the United States. The question came up in
the Supreme Court of Tennessee over the
case of John Jones who owned a small farm
which should, at his death, have gone to his
brother William. The Tennessee Court de-
cided that ex-slaves could not inherit and
this has been appealed to the United States
Supreme Court.
CJ Judge Travis, a colored resident of Jer-
sey City, N. J., brought a case against the
New Jersey Empire Amusement Company
for discrimination in a theatre in Hoboken.
Mr. Travis was represented in the case by
Robert S. Hartgrove, a colored lawyer. A
decision for $500 damages was given Mr.
Travis.
116
THE CRISIS
A colored man, E. W. Fields, of Monroe
County, Ala., when unable to pay a fine for
larceny, contracted to work out the indebted-
ness with J. A. Reynolds, a white farmer.
Later Reynolds had Fields arrested for fail-
ing to complete the contract and Fields hired
himself out to another white man, G. W.
Broughton. The federal government has
carried the matter to the Supreme Court of
the United States and charges the two white
men with peonage.
THE GHETTO.
I^^R. B. T. WASHINGTON has written
■*■**■* a letter, which has been published in
most of the colored weeklies, asking the rail-
roads for equal accommodations for white
and colored people. He asked that Sunday,
June 7, be set aside as “Railroad Day” to
protest against the discrimination practised.
<3 The colored people of New Bedford,
Mass., held a mass meeting to protest against
a lecture, misrepresenting and slandering
Negroes, delivered there by a southern white
man under the auspices of the free public
library.
*J The National Association of Colored
Women’s Clubs is protesting against the
caricaturing of colored people upon bill
boards, in magazines, in advertisements of
food products, etc.
The Mayor of Louisville, Ky., has signed
the ordinance providing for the segregation
of Negroes.
C| Fifty-two members of a colored Knights
of Pythias Lodge in Pittsburgh, Pa., who
were engaged rather noisily in an initiation,
were arrested and kept in jail all night until
dismissed in the morning by the magistrate.
A large number of colored people held a
mass meeting at one of the churches and pro-
tested to the Mayor and asked for the dis-
charge of Lieut. John McArdle, who caused
the arrest.
C| Mrs. Ida Eversman, a white woman, is
offering her residence on Forty-first Street,
between Fourth and Fifth Avenues, New'
York City, for sale “to Negroes only.” She
has become incensed at the treatment accord-
ed her by her neighbors.
CRIME.
nPHE following colored men have been
lynched since the last account:
At Grovetown, Ga., Charles Jones was
lynched by a mob of 150 white men. He
was accused of stealing a pair of shoes; no
shoes were found on his premises and other
reports say that Jones was lynched because
he was intoxicated and “talked big.” At
Shreveport, La., Edward Hamilton, eighteen
years of age, was lynched by a mob of
5,000.	He was accused of attacking a ten-
year-old girl; later reports refute this charge.
At Tampa, Fla., James Woodsome, charged
with trying to force his way into a white
woman’s hotel room, was lynched.
<3 A mob of 250 men took John Thomas, a
colored man, from the Abbeville (S. C.) jail,
tortured him and cut off one ear. Thomas
was accused of making “improper advances”
to a white woman.
Sylvester Washington, a colored man of
St. James, La., accused of murdering two
men, was shot to death by a crowd of “citi-
zens.”
<3 A strange white man, passing through a
Negro settlement near Batesville, Miss.,
raped a ten-year-old child while her mother
and father were in the fields. At the child’s
alarm the neighbors started out and captured
the man about eight miles away from the
scene of the crime, but because the only evi-
dence obtainable was that given by the small
children who saw him, he was not indicted.
*3 Fannie Chenault, a white woman of Rich-
mond, Va., claimed that she was held up on
the Richmond-Rappahannock car line and
raped by a colored man on the night of May
9. The woman has not been able to identify
any of the dozen men who have been ac-
cused of the crime and she has shown so
much indecision in the identification that the
detectives seem to be losing interest in the
case. As a result of her accusation one Ne-
gro who resisted arrest by a plain clothes
man (and who Miss Chenault says positively
was not the man) is dead, and another is
fined $100 and given twelve months for car-
rying concealed weapons.
*3 Officers of Jefferson Parish, La., shot and
wounded very seriously an innocent colored
man when, in their starch for a supposed
criminal, they came upon him in the woods.
*3 The Supreme Court of North Carolina
rendered a decision against the town of
Winston-Salem in its case against William
Darnell, a Negro who occupied a house in a
white neighborhood. Chief Justice Clark
declared the aldermen had no right to pass
a segregation ordinance.
c

MEN or THE MONTH

urn.
AN EDUCATOR
' B AHE Judges of the Supreme Court of the
A District of Columbia have appointed
Mrs. Coralie Franklin Cook as a member of
the Board of Education for the District to
succeed Mrs. Caroline W. Harris. This is
an unusually fortunate selection. Mrs. Cook
is a graduate of Storer College and taught
many years there and in the public schools.
In 1893 she came to Washington as Super-
intendent of a home for women and children.
Five years later she married George William
Cook, Secretary of Howard University, and
became Professor of English in that institu-
tion, a position which she held for several
years. With her husband, Mrs. Cook worked
out the cottage system of the Government
Training School at Blue Plains and won
commendation for her work from the District
Commissioners. She has been especially in-
terested in children’s playgrounds and was
one of the speakers at the eightieth anni-
versary of the birth of Susan B. Anthony.
She is a member of the National Association
for the Advancement of Colored People and
a qhiet, tactful, high-minded woman of cul-
ture and public spirit.
m
A REAL ESTATE DEALER
TTUGH M. BURKETT was born in Balti-
more a little less than thirty-seven
years ago and is now the most successful
colored real estate broker in the city, doing
a business of $50,000 a year. He received
his college training at Lincoln and took his
law course at Howard. Mr. Burkett has
sold over five hundred homes to colored peo-
ple on the better streets of Baltimore and
indeed was so successful in the work as to
be one of the prime causes of the Negro
segregation agitation in that city. Mr. Bur-
kett has just moved into new quarters; he
has five assistants, an automobile for pro-
fessional purposes, advertises in the daily
papers and is called by the Baltimore daily
News an “unique figure in the real estate life
of Baltimore.” It goes without saying that
Mr. Burkett is a reader of The Crisis and
a member of the National Association for
the Advancement of Colored People. He
furnished bail for the colored man who shot
into a mob recently and was acquitted by
the efforts of our attorney.
OF NEGRO DESCENT
A GAIN there comes to our notice the case
of persons of Negro descent who have
attained places of trust and prominence but
HUGH M. BURKETT.
118
THE CRISIS
are, especially after death, counted as white
men. The state of Washington has a large
number of such cases. In 1905 a colored
man named George Washington died in that
state. He became wealthy, helped his former
master’s family and the present town of
Centralia is built largely on his land. A
quadroon has been Mayor of a city of 45,000
inhabitants; another had a high federal of-
fice in Seattle, and still another, W. O. Bush,
now deceased, was a member of the last ter-
ritorial legislature in 1884 and the first state
legislature in 1SS9-90. He came to Wash-
ington from Missouri in 1884. He was a
quadroon, the son of a mulatto father and
a German-American mother. The children
of the family have intermarried with the
white neighbors; one of the daughters is the
wife of the sheriff of the County.
A MISSIONARY IN EDUCATION
"I^TR. J. A. HENRY, who died recently in
•*■*■*• Chattanooga, Term., was a northern
Negro who went down into the House of
Bondage to help his people. He was born
in Buffalo in 1859 and framed in the public
schools and in Atlanta University. He went
to Chattanooga in the year of his graduation
THE LATE W. O. BUSH.
and taught there for thirty-one years until
his death. The Chattanooga Tivies said edi-
torially: “Prof. Henry was a man of char-
acter and had won his reputation as a clean,
self-respecting and responsible citizen by a
faithful performance of duty.” Another
white daily said: “Prof. Henry enjoyed the
respect of the white as well as the colored
people. He was devoted to his duties and to
the betterment of his race and his influence
during the period, more than a quarter of a
century, he had lived and labored in Chat-
tanooga was most beneficial not only to the
children but to the adults of his race.
His funeral was attended by six thousand
people. His body lay in state in a purple
casket, covered with the masonic regalia of
a Knight Templar and thirty-third degree
mason, while four white horses led a pro-
cession that blocked Ninth Street for an
hour. The Mayor of the city, the State Com-
missioner of Education, the City Superin-
tendent and many prominent citizens, white
and colored, were in attendance.
THE LATE S. H. BISHOP.
(See Editorial)
THE PHILOSOPHY OF MR. DOLE
A REJOINDER.
Mr. Dole's letter and The
Crisis editorial reply con-
tinue to provoke discussion, especially by
mail. Mr. Dole himself sends us a letter
which we regret we have not space for in
full on “Efficiency and Persuasion," and
fears that we do not altogether understand
his point of view as to the proper attitude
toward people who differ with us or oppose
us. He concludes by saving:
**My point here is practical efficiency.
You make no progress with prejudiced, vio-
lent, and purse-proud or race-proud men by
demanding your rights of them. They are
stirred to resist you. You make the issue
one of antagonism, as of you against them,
which is essentially an inhumane kind of
issue. But try the way of your religion
(which is also the philosophy of social dyn-
amics) ; put yourself with the other as a
fellow-human subject to the same passions
and spiritual perils, assume a good heart in
him and some conscience, respect and trust
him a little, work with the grain and keep
your good temper—another name for the
health of your own soul—and you will get
results; your rights will fall to you, as sure
as the sun makes the corn grow. The world
is slowly learning that good-will is the
mightiest practical force in the universe!
“Please, therefore, Mr. Editor, allow this
question, whether your admirable abilities
might not really be enhanced by magnani-
mously forbidding yourself to brood over
the injustice and barbarism of the world,
and filling yourself with that kind of civiliz-
ing power which no injustice can long re-
sist."
A veteran friend and co-worker with the
Negro race writes in further support of Mr.
Dole's contentions:
“A man of Mr. Dole’s spirit—a better
spirit than Lyman Abbott's or Mr. Ogden's
—did not deserve that kind of treatment,
nor did it seem consistent with the deep re-
spect and admiration which you professed
for him personally. Most readers, I think,
would lay down the magazine with praise of
his spirit and rebuke of yours, and then
hastily conclude that his argument was good
and yours bad, and thus miss the real force
of what you had been saying. That is the
simple psychology with which much printed
matter is read, and we cannot afford to ig-
nore it.”
Mr. George G. Bradford says: “Don't,
for heaven's sake, slop over with any more
such futile answers as you applied to Mr.
Dole."
Then come these crumbs of comfort:
Your “Philosophy of Mr. Dole” and
Picken's “Crisis" are worth a nation-wide
circulation. Broadside your editorial and
send it separately forth as a defiant note to
maudlin missionaries and weak-kneed poli-
ticians. Nail it on the church door; spread
it over the Congress. It is a real fact for
these miserable sycophantic times.
Hastily yours,
Richard T. Greener.
Thanks for your splendid editorial in re-
ply to Charles F. Dole. I subscribe to every
word of it.
Faithfully,
John Dana Miller,
Editor of the Single Tax Review.
Will you accept my hearty congratulations
on your answer to the Rev. Charles Fletcher
Dole. It is bully and right to the point.
Much as I esteem The Crisis, I think it
quite outdid itself on this occasion. Keep it
up.	Sincerely yours,
Ernest H. Gruening.
Just when I am beginning to think you
aren't worth while you write some splendid
thing like that reply to Charles F. Dole and
120
THE CRISIS
thrill me to my utmost soul. I simply can-
not express my unbounded appreciation of
that splendid rebuke. What I admire about
The Crisis is its fearless attitude. When
The Crisis ceases to speak out as it does, I
she11 have no further use for Tele Crisis.
Yours truly,
Carrie W. Clifford.
“I wish to thank you for your reply to
Mr. Dole and send you an example of the
propagation of failure to capitalize Negro.”
University of Wisconsin
Style Book
Capitalization
Capitalize
• • •
Names of all races and nationalities,
except negro.
m
THE ISHMAELITE.
Elsie Singmaster writes a
a magazine	jn june Century of
STORY	.
an old colored man who goes to
Gettysburg Reunion. Of course, in order to
get in the fiction pages of a large American
magazine the Negro had to be “like a child”
with a “dull mind” and “confused” while,
of course, his eyes “roll in their sockets.”
Nevertheless, there is a deeply sympathetic
note in the sketch which shows how this
poor, old, simple-minded man was almost
lynched and finally died from exposure.
‘‘But he saw no more, felt no more, in this
world. Sometime in the night he rose aim-
lessly and moved a few steps away, and fell
again, thus destroying the strange tableau
of which he had made part.
“In the morning he was found, and was
taken away. That he represented a great
problem, that he was a creature of strange,
pathetic, tremendous significance, no one
noted. The land had purged itself of its
sin, a blood-sacrifice had been made, the for-
bidden thing had been put away. Down in
the great camp thousands of Union veterans
shook hands with thousands of Confederate
veterans; there rose hurrahing and singing
and playing of bands. Brother was united
with brother; it was proper that no discor-
dant note should mar the blessed harmony
of peace and good fellowship. Of Johnson
and his kin no word was said.”
THE ELUSIVE JEOPARD.
The Saturday Evening Post has
Presence	tale:
of mind. An appiicant for a place as
teacher in one of the colored schools at
Louisville was being examined touching his
fitness for the position. He was a small,
dapper, yellow person, wearing gold spec-
tacles, a long black coat, and an abiding air
of great dignity.
The examination was in part oral and
syntax had been reached.
“What is your definition of the word
‘jeopardized’?” asked the examiner.
The candidate’s brow wrinkled.
“Which?” he inquired.
“What do you understand the word ‘jeop-
ardized’ to mean?”
For just one short half-minute he hesi-
tated. Then he answered sonorously:
“In reply to yo’ question I would state
that that would refer to any act committed
by a jeopard.”
m
BALTIMORE AND MEMPHIS.
The Baltimore and Memphis
n. a. a. c. P. Conferences of the National
meetings. Association for the Advance-
ment of Colored People lead the Chicago
Evening Post to say of Mr. Villard’s ad-
dress :
“We cannot help congratulating the
Negroes on the strategic cleverness as well
as the high moral quality of the men who
are espousing their cause.
“Ask the average man about the American
attitude toward the Negro, and he will tell
you that the North is the Negro’s friend and
that the South is in league to hold him
down; that no southern voice dare lift itself
on his behalf, and that, on the other hand,
the white people of the South are unani-
mously agreed on the policy of keeping the
Negro in his place and in asking the North
to keep its hands off the problem. These
ideas are common in the North, and we do
not doubt that they are just as common in
the South.
“Then comes the National Association for
the Advancement of Colored People, right
into a southern town which has recently dis-
tinguished itself by establishing a Negro
pale, and tells the southerners that those
ideas are not true; that their own people are
turning against the traditional and reputed
southern attitude.”
OPINION
121
The conference was not received with very
widely open arms in Baltimore, but it has
undoubtedly done more good by one meeting
there than it could do by five in the North.
The New York Evening Post prints the
following dispatch from its Memphis cor^
respondent:
“The day of plain speaking in the South
on the race question has come. Three evan-
gelists descended upon Memphis, told some
wholesome truths about the treatment of the
Negro to a very large audience, and pro-
voked no trouble in the telling of it. It was
what they called ‘the new abolitionism1 that
was talked by Dr. W. E. Burghardt Du Bois,
editor of The Crisis; Dr. Joel E. Spingarn,
chairman of the board of directors of the
National Association for the Advancement
of Colored People, and Prof. William Pick-
ens, of Talladega College. Never before, it
is said, has such language as theirs been
heard in these parts on this subject.
“These men combined forces and secured
one of the local churches for a public meet-
ing. Then they inserted advertisements in
all the local papers, billing the meeting un-
der the auspices of the N. A. A. C. P., and
adding:
ALL PERSONS WHO LOVE THE TRUTH
AND DARE TO HEAR IT ARE
CORDIALLY INVITED
“Memphis is full of ‘social workers’ just
now who are here in attendance upon the
Southern Sociological Congress and the Na-
tional Conference of Charities and Correc-
tions. There has been considerable discus-
sion of the Negro at the two conferences,
but both conferences have been careful not
to say anything which would offend South-
ern sentiment on the Negro question, or al-
ienate the South from the progressive ideas
of social sendee and social reform for which
the conferences stand.
“But the unusual advertisement in the
papers woke Memphis up to the fact that
she was harboring, along with the ‘social
workers’ of unknown intellectual antece-
dents, at least, three men who held disagree-
able views upon the race question. A large,
and possibly none too friendly, audience
filled Avery Chapel to hear a discussion of
■“The Negro Problem,” in which the stock
assumptions of Memphis on that subject
were disregarded.”
The Survey says in its report of the Con-
ference of Charities and Corrections:
“The race question was among those pre-
sent, though it bore no credentials as a dele-
gate. A Negro woman from Illinois was
refused registration in the National Confer-
ence of Charities and Correction by a clerk
employed by the local committee, until Gra-
ham Taylor peremptorily ordered that her
name be entered. The sessions of the South-
ern Sociological Conference were adjourned
from the Orpheum theater to a white church
in order that the Negro members might sit
on the main floor with their fellow members.
“And a front attack was made on both
the national and the southern bodies by the
National Association for the Advancement
of Colored People. W. E. Burghardt Du
Bois, Joel E. Spingarn of New York, and
Prof. William Pickens of Talladega College,
spoke at a meeting advertised in the papers
for ‘all persons who love the truth and dare
to hear it.’ ”
m
MISCEGENATION.
A white South Carolinian,
separating wrjting ^ the Columbia State,
the races. makes some curious admissions
from which we quote:
“The mulatto and otherwise colored popu-
lation is steadily increasing. The census
fails to show the facts, as it makes no divi-
sion among ‘Negroes.’ But if we look about
us we must see that few if any pureblooded
Negroes remain.
“Moreover, the Negro race in our midst is
all the time receiving new accessions of white
blood. In every community there are white
men who have mulatto or quadroon or octo-
roon progeny. Some of these men have
stocked their neighborhoods with these mon-
grel offsprings, and often have established
them upon lands. Every rural section is de-
graded by the knowledge of this double
standard of morals and is cursed with the
presence of this ‘grade-white’ population,
prospective ancestors of higher ‘grade-white’
descendants finally to pass as white and be
incorporated into the blood of the best that
may still remain! Thus the citadel of white
supremacy is being betrayed by immoral
white men,. traitors to their race.
“In every town there are colored people
who look white and would pass as white if
their antecedents were not known and if they
122
THE CRISIS
did not claim to be Negroes. How many
newcomers into a community now or here-
after may be of this type, who can say? It
makes us shudder.
"Even in the South before the war there
were respectable and prominent families sus-
pected of a Negro taint, and for that reason
consciously avoided in marriage. It is hinted
that the much boasted blood of Pocahontas
was sometimes adroitly claimed and cour-
teously conceded to account for an off color
of an apparently aristocratic immigrant
from Old Virginia, who had left his home to
escape a tradition of Negro origin and to
build a proud family in new surroundings,
possibly receiving from his reputed father
the money with which to establish himself.
"The infusion of Negro blood into our
white stock had made enough progress in the
proud ante-bellum South to give our courts
occasion to lay down the common law rule
that a person should be taken as legally
white if more than seven-eighths white and
should be a Negro only if as much as one-
eighth Negro.
“In some localities at the outbreak of the
war free men of color, nearly white in ap-
pearance but still socially and legally Ne-
groes, enlisted in the Confederate array and
thereafter they were accorded the status of
white men. Old timers tell us of such. Your
descendants may intermarry with theirs.
Mongrelism is begun in the South.”
The Charlotte Observer in the same line
has an editorial on Villa’s Negro blood.
“We at once rejected as improbable in it-
self and as seemingly impossible by compari-
son of dates and ages the story that Villa
was a Maryland mulatto who had served in
the Tenth Cavalry, United States Army. He
no doubt bears strong facial resemblance to
a former member of that colored regiment,
as one man after another of those who have
served in it insists that his pictures portray
this man. But the resemblance and the fact
that the man with whom he is identified can-
not be traced or located anywhere are not
evidence enough. Villa’s personal history in
Mexico has been traced from rather early
youth. However, it has been repeatedly
stated by those who have given most atten-
tion to the facts of his career that he pos-
sesses a considerable and noticeable admix-
ture of Negro blood. His mother was a
Negress, according to all the accounts on this
subject that we have seen.
“If Villa is mixed white and Negro with-
out any Indian, we may, compare him raci-
ally with Gen. Antonio Maceo, the best
fighter, until a Spanish bullet found him, of
the last Cuban revolt. It does not seem pos-
sible, however, that any Mexican of the
lower class could fail to possess more or less
Indian blood, the racial basis of the whole
country.”
B
SEGREGATION.
Kelly Miller says in the
results OF Washington Evening Star:
jim-crow u «geparate but equal ac-
legislation. comraodations for both races’
is the slogan of *jim crow’ legislation. Ex-
perience shows that this is impracticable, as
reflection would show it to be impossible.
Identity is the essence of equality in all
public functions. Two non-interchangeable
parts cannot long maintain their original
parity. If some of our sagacious statesmen
should secure the enactment of a law that
there shall be different weights and measures
for the two races, but that the two yardsticks
shall have the same length and that pound
weights shall contain the same number of
ounces; provided that no Negro shall be ac-
commodated by the white man’s units of
weight and measure, and vice versa, under
heavy penalty of law; in the short process
of time, human nature remaining what we
know it to be, the Negro would be receiving
the lighter weight and the shorter measure.
The man who cannot protect himself will
become the victim in every issue where his
interests are separated from those of the
community at large. If there were two
standards of coinage, of the same weight and
fineness, only that the one set of coins must
forever circulate among Negroes and the
other among white people, the black man’s
coins would immediately depreciate in com-
parison. The parity could only be main-
tained by free interchangeability.”
This truth is illustrated by two clippings.
The Richmond Times-D is patch says:
“Our readers will recall that when the Um-
laut ordinance was passed in answer to a
public demand, which the Tiines-Dispatch
did its best to foster, the number of bar-
rooms in the city was reduced to 150. At
the same time, the Judge of the Hustings
Court, who was given full authority to pass
on the location of saloons, let it be known
that he would not grant licenses for bar-
OPINION
123
rooms in residential sections.
“But the conditions disclosed in the letter
of our correspondent is contrary to the spirit
of the existing ordinance, contrary to the
rules of common justice and contrary to the
principles of sound morality. It is bad
enough, in all conscience, to have so many
thousand of our colored citizens herded into
the section north of Broad Street; it is even
worse to permit barrooms to flourish on
practically every corner. How can we ex-
pect our colored citizens to rear their fami-
lies in decency, purity and self-respect if
we fill the chief colored residential section
with saloons?”
A colored correspondent writes to the Bal-
timore American:
“Kent Island has a large number-of Negro
inhabitants, considering its area. It has
three colored schools, situated about six and
four miles apart. A number of the children
live four and a half to five miles from the
schools. The school rooms are so uncomfort-
able that during the winter months the smal-
ler children have to remain at home; the
older ones take turns sitting near the stove,
while the teacher must retain her wraps.
“On the island about five-sixths of the
Negro families own their homes, boats and
engines. Many own horses and are paying
taxes on them; but there is but one school-
house, the other school rooms being a hall,
rented, and a small dwelling-house, one room
up and one down, bought by the county.
The teachers’ salary for years has been $25
a month. Board is cheap at $9. Now, after
buying necessary periodicals, correspondence
essentials and paying church dues, what re-
mains for the teachers to dress neatly on and
to visit their homes during holidays? The
average housegirl gets from $3 to $4 a week;
cooks from $3.50 to $5. There has been do
one to visit our school from October until
March, save the trustees, who do what they
can to make the school rooms comfortable,
even though they are not sanitary.
m
SOUTH AFRICA
The population of the part of
pauperizing gouth Africa under the Union
the native. Government was, in 1911,
1,300,000	Europeans and 5,200,000 colored
people. The Nineteenth Century says:
“The scarcity of native labor within the
Union becomes greater every year, and to-
day the supply is barely equal to fifty per
cent of the demand, although the enormous
sums spent in recruiting are not diminished.
Special efEorts have been made wdthin the
last few years to popularize labor among the
natives living under the Union Government,
but with such disappointing results that
compulsory legislation has been freely dis-
cussed in certain interested circles.
“Until recently no serious trouble was ex-,
perienced with white labor. Even at the
mines, despite the' danger of miner’s phthi-
sis, the supply has been equal to the demand.
The plentitude of white labor and the scar-
city of colored labor is the more remarkable
when it is borne in mind that the great bulk
of the former has been attracted from for-
eign countries, while every inducement has
failed to entice more than a meagre percent-
age of the native force resident inside the
limits of the Union territory. At present
there are trwo white men for every vacant
place and two vacant places for colored men
for every one that is occupied. This extraor-
dinary position, without parallel in any
other part of the world, is emphasized by the
fact that only when colored labor is avail-
able can white labor be employed with ad-
vantage.
“In South Africa, with the exception of
some parts of the Cape Province, a colored
man may not do a white man’s work. In
the Transvaal he is debarred by statute from
becoming an engineer or a miner. He may
not take charge of a steam engine or boiler,
nor may he hold a blasting certificate. It is
an unwritten law that no native shall be an
artisan. Skilled labor in all its branches is
reserved for the European, as well as every
position of responsibility in connection with
the industries of the country.
“In China the railways, mines, and work-
shops are all manned by Chinese. In India
they are manned by Indians, with the excep-
tion that about one-third of the engine-
drivers and firemen on the railways are, for
political reasons, English. In both these
countries there are the coolie classes who do*
the meaner work, just as in European coun-
tries there are the laboring classes. In
South Africa Indians and Chinese come un-
der the color ban with the native, and every
African workman is, in his own country,
classed as a coolie. He must not come into
competition with the white man. And the
white man, however unskilled, must engage
in ‘skilled’ labor or remain idle.
“This condition of things has created a
124
THE CRISIS
unique system of inter-dependence. If a
man gets a gang of a dozen ‘boys’ together
and presents himself thus equipped at any
mine or workshop, he will be employed with,
and solely because of them. Should he leave
the job and the ‘boys’ elect to remain, an-
other man must be found to take liis place
or the ‘boys’ will be thrown idle.
“The highest position open to a native is
that of ‘boss boy,’ which means that he in-
terprets for the man in charge and serves as
a buffer between him and the other ‘boys.’
These ‘boss boys’ often remain for years,
and will return again and again to work
after a short holiday. This obtains in every
department, on the railways as well as in
the mines, and is evidence that, with reason-
able hope of advancement, the native would
become a constant and reliable factor. Many
natives are quite capable of taking charge of
a stope or a drive. If only these and similar
positions were open to them the end of all
this shortage of labor would be well' in sight.
And, if the trades and professions wrere
open to every man, whatever his color, a
new and better era would soon dawn for
South Africa.
“*	*	* A white miner may rise to be
manager of a mine, but a colored man can
never succeed to a white man’s job. the
average Tjoy’s’ pay is from 2s. to 3s. a day,
with food and lodging. The white miner
over him gets 15s. to 1/. a day, if paid by
the shift, and if on contract may make con-
siderable more. Artisans, such as carpen-
ters and fitters, are paid 11. a day in the
Transvaal.
“Sooner or later the sentiment that fixes
so great a gulf between the wages, and con-
sequently between the standards of living, of
white and black must give way. *	•	•
“The regeneration of South Africa lies
along these lines. This is the conclusion ar-
rived at by the writer after over twenty
years’ experience on the Rand, in almost
every capacity up to that of general man-
ager.”
Is South Africa moving this way? By no
means. It is reaching out for rulership over
the large dependencies with their millions of
natives and is especially determined to mo-
nopolize the land.
On May 8, the President of the African
National Native Congress wrote The Crisis
as follows:
“I am in Capetown, enroute to England,
with a party being the delegates, seven in
number, chosen by the South African Native
National Congress, to present the African
protest against the Natives’ Land Act, 1913,
passed by the Union of South Africa Parlia-
ment last June, planned to despoil our peo-
ple and humble us in the dust.
“1 wrote to you from Oklange, as did Miss
Blackburn. I trust you may feel able to
render us some help. We would be most
grateful if your people could send you over
during June to help us by your eloquence
and personality in appealing to the British
public.
“We expect to arrive in England on June
the 2nd.
“I am, dear Doctor,
“Faithfully yours,
(Signed) “John L. Dube.”
m
THE SMITH-LEVER BILL
The Smith-Lever bill was
a triumph IN	qUietly reported back from
prejudice.	Conference on Monday,
April 27, without the two amendments
which the Senate had adopted as a result of
the efforts of the National Association for
the Advancement of Colored People.
This action was reported to the National
Association by its agent in Washington,
and we wired to our friends in Senate and
House urging them to do all in their power
to prevent the passage of the bill as re-
ported by the Conference Committee.
When Senator Jones returned to the
Senate, on April 29, he had the Con-
ference report recalled from the House,
where it had been sent. Subsequently, on the
same day, with the able assistance of Senator
Cummins and others, he succeeded in de-
feating an attempt of Senators Smith
and Hollis to rescind this action, and the
30th of April was reached with the report
still in the Senate for action.
Finally the Senate, by a vote of thirty-
two to twenty-five, tabled the motion to re-
consider the acceptance of the report.
As soon as word was received of the final
passage of the bill without our amendments,
a letter was sent to the President of the
United States, in the name of the National
Association, and signed by Jane Addams,
Herbert Parsons, Moorfield Storey, Oswald
Garrison Yillard, Joel E. Spingarn and
William S. Bennet, urging him to veto the
bill on the ground that it discriminated
against the colored farmers of the South.
The President signed the bill.
MUDDLE
HE Negro problem is un-
doubtedly reaching a de-
gree of spiritual compli-
cation which makes the
onlooker hesitate be-
tween tears and hysteri-
cal laughter. A National Conference of
Charities and Correction recently met in
a great southern city. It is a confer-
ence that numbers in its membership
practically every great name in Ameri-
can social reform. It stands for advance
and uplift, help and development in all
lines of human endeavor. It met in
Memphis. Memphis has a population of
142,619 with 52,441 Negroes and is the
geographical center of the largest Negro
population in the western world. The
traveler from Altruria would surely as-
sume that the problems touching these
darker thousands and the relations of
white and black would have been a mat-
ter of serious, thoughtful consideration.
Not so. The National Association for
the Advancement of Colored People*
pleaded for the inclusion of such sub-
jects as matters of general discussion.
But as the Survey says, the Negro prob-
lem was “not invited” and appeared but
rarely and quite incidentally on the
program.
The excuse given by the officials was
that the subject was too controversial
and that the Southern Sociological Con-
gress, meeting during the sessions of the
Charities Conference, would discuss
these matters. Very good. But would
not this same traveller from Altruria
assume that at least every effort would
be made to interest colored people in the
general work of the conference? Here
were matters touching the saving of chil-
dren, the reduction of crime, increased
cleanliness, the protection of .mothers,
conditions of labor, etc., all of which
touched the colored people very closely
in their every-day life. One would have
thought that the highways and hedges
would have been scoured to make the
colored people of Memphis, and particu-
larly their teachers, preachers, profes-
sional men and business men, become ac-
quainted with modern philanthropic
effort. This was not done. On the con-
trary, at the peremptory demand of the
local white committee all Negroes were
segregated in the gallery and, as a re-
sult, not a dozen Negroes attended the
week’s sessions of this mighty confer-
ence. How could they and retain their
self-respect ?
It is doubtless the courteous and
proper thing for the National Confer-
ence to defer, in many things, to the
wish and opinion of the local entertain-
ing committee. But are there no limits
to such deference? Is there no place
where decency and principle can make
a last stand?
In contrast to the moral cowardice of
the northern leaders of social reform,
the Southern Sociological Congress to
whom the local colored committee also
appealed for decent consideration in the
matter of accommodation, decided that
they might be admitted to the ground
floor of the theatre where both associa-
tions were holding their main sessions.
The proprietors of the theatre thereupon
126
THE CRISIS
objected and the Sociological Congress
changed the place of meeting. So that
hundreds of colored people attended the
meeting of this Congress.
If, however, anyone thinks that this
has been a happy solution of the diffi-
culty, let them listen to Mr. Clarence
Poe, of North Carolina. Mr. Poe, in de-
clining re-election to the Executive Com-
mittee of the Congress, says: “In the
first place, I ought to explain that while
I attended some of the sectional meet-
ings of the Congress in Atlanta last
year, I did not attend the general ses-
sion or the race problem meetings, and
it was not until I attended this year’s
meetings in Memphis that I discovered
that white men and white women, Negro
men and Negro women are all admitted
on terms of equality as members and as
participants in the Congress. At Mem-
phis, moreover, the seating of both
whites and Negroes on the first floor and
the crowding out of white ladies by Ne-
gro men became so offensive (cultured
ladies from my own town, for example,
were escorted to their seats by Negro
ushers) that the local Memphis commit-
tee could not endure it, and passed a
resolution asking the officers to have the
Negroes seated separately in the first
balcony. And then it was that ffhe
officers of the conference’ the daily
papers said—I do not know what of-
ficers, for you had just left town, I be-
lieve, and so far as I know, the Execu-
tive Committee was not consulted—but
at any rate, the ‘officers,’ in order to keep
the Negro members right with the
whites, left the Orpheum Theatre, which
our Memphis hosts had provided, and
adjourned to a separate theatre for a
final meeting on the Negro problem at
which one white man, one Negro, and
one mixed-breed* entertained the mixed
assemblage of members.”
This means that advanced opinion of
the South has a fight on its hands and
that in the next ten years it is going to
be determined whether or not the South
can have two opinions concerning the
Negro: one, the reactionary suppression
of Poe, and the other, social uplift in
“The Human Way.” Moreover, the
North, characteristically, has deserted
the advanced South at just the moment
when the South needed it. If Graham
Taylor, the President, and the Executive
Committee of the Conference of Chari-
ties had said, “This conference is going
to admit every decently behaved human
being, who wishes to hear its delibera-
tions, on equal terms,” then the Socio-
logical Conference could have taken its
stand with the moral backing of the best
of the nation. As it is now, a brave de-
voted band find themselves holding a
lonely outpost while their northern
white brothers are bravely scuttling to
the rear.
If now these southern social radicals
look for help to the radical movement in
the South they find that movement
largely in the hands of demagogues like
Blease and Vardaman, and radical on-
everything except the Negro problem.
On that they are reactionary, vindictive,
and positively indecent to a degree
which is almost inconceivable. A paper
like the Harpoon of Austin, Tex., which
is supposed to represent exceptional
democracy and abolition of privilege,
never reaches its proper depths of vile
vituperation until it discusses the Negro,
as it does most of the time, and yet it
imagines itself in harmony with the for-
ward movements of the world!
Consider, then, these five elements:
the struggling, emerging Negro, the
cowardly white North, the advanced
white southern reformers, the Negro
hating southern radicals and the reac-
tionary Poes. Can one imagine a more
mischief-making combination?
fB
THE CAUSE OF LYNCHING
T is exceedingly difficult
to get at the real cause
of lynching but The
Crisis is more and more
convinced that the real
cause is seldom the one
alleged. In the barbaric Oklahoma case
of the lynching of a woman, the press
EDITORIAL
127
despatches made it a quarrel in a “red-
light” district, but two private letters in
our hands from apparently trustworthy
persons declare that it was the case of
a seventeen-year-old girl defending her
own honor.
From Shreveport there are newspa-
per accounts of a horrible lynching of
a Negro boy for attacking a ten-year-old
child. But again a private letter tells
us that the girl was old enough to be
ticket seller in a theatre; that she was
not injured in the slightest degree, but
was found “hale and hearty and sing-
ing” the day after; and that, as a matter
of fact, the boy was lynched because of
his relations with another and older
white woman.
We have no way of proving these as-
sertions; but they have many ear-marks
of truth and their very assertion is an
astounding indictment of modern Amer-
ican barbarism. The Crisis knows that
Negroes are human and it does not for
a moment presume that every Negro ac-
cused of a horrible crime is innocent.
It wants, and wants for the sake of col-
ored people even more than of others,
that colored criminals be treated so as to
decrease crime, whatever that treatment
may be. It is painfully significant that
of all methods of suppressing crime
lynching has certainly failed in Shreve-
port ; in that city and parish seven Ne-
groes have been lynched in two years,
not counting ordinary murders.
M
SAMUEL HENRY BISHOP
N the death of Samuel
Henry Bishop the
American Negro loses
a devoted friend. Mr.
Bishop was born in Wil-
liston, Vt., in 1863. He
received his education at the University
of Vermont and Union Theological Sem-
inary, becoming a priest of the Episco-
pal Church in 1891. For many years he
served as rector in and about New York
and at Colorado Springs. He was a
speaker of much eloquence and had both
an imaginative and logical mind which
he had cultivated by wide reading and
study. In 1906 he became general agent
of the American Church Institute for
Negroes. This new institution was an
attempt on the part of the Episcopal
Church to consolidate and organize its
educational work in the South for col-
ored people. This was a matter of great
difficulty because of the peculiar consti-
tution of the church. The combination
of a large class of wealthy northern peo-
ple and a correspondingly large class of
Southerners, representing the old master
type, made it exceedingly difficult to
treat the problem of the education of the
Negro in a consistent modern spirit.
The result was, for many years, inertia
and indifference, and of all the great re-
ligious organizations the Episcopal
Church has probably done least for
southern education. To this task Mr.
Bishop came. It is too much to say that
he was successful, but certainly he suc-
ceeded in arousing the church on the
subject as it never had been aroused be-
fore, and in securing a larger measure
of unanimity in the utterances of the
North and South than had ever been ob-
tained previously.
It was, however, heart-sickening work.
Mr. Bishop was a delicate and sensitive
man—a man who felt painfully and
deeply the tragedy of the American Ne-
gro, and who also knew by intimate con-
tact and association the peculiar mental
processes of Southerners and Northern-
ers on the subject. He found his own
solution in a peculiar self-forgetful
idealism—“Entbehren sollst du, sollst
entbehren,” he said in the singularly
beautiful sketch published in the March
Crisis.
Mr. Bishop was a member of this As-
sociation and a careful reader of The
Crisis. We have not always agreed with
Mr. Bishop in the compromises which he
was perhaps forced to make and in some
of his policies, but we have always loved
him personally and honored his unusual
singleness of purpose and high ideals.
128
THE CRISIS
COLLEGE EDUCATION
HE training of youth—the
revelation of life, its
present technique and
its future possibilities to
growing young people—
is a matter of intricacy
and difficulty to any people. But it is
peculiarly difficult to colored Americans
who must, in addition, teach of invisible
bonds and concealed social barriers, of
worlds within worlds and dangerous
waste places, of subtle temptations and
unnatural restraints. Every artificially
increased difficulty that surrounds col-
ored children to-day should be addi-
tional incentive to make their education
and mental development the highest pos-
sible. Only in the higher intellectual
life of to-day can they hope to find that
freedom, fellowship and joy which fiend-
ish ingenuity cuts out of so much of
their work, their amusements and their
daily walks.
The colored people should strain every
nerve to send their children through the
best colleges. No matter what avenues
of employment may be closed to them,
give them thorough intellectual training
according to their very best standards;
then let them dig, cook and sew. Make
them men even if they have to be
menials. In the long run they will burst
their bonds and be modern free men.
But train them so that in the day of sun-
dered bonds they can take their place
beside their fellows and not be held back
then by ignorance as they are now by
prejudice.
REAL ESTATE IN NEW YORK
P the Negroes are to keep
what little they have
gained in the right to
occupy decent dwelling
places on the island of
Manhattan, they would
better be up and doing.
For a long time the widespread con-
spiracy of real-estate agencies has been
seeking to attack the dwelling places of
colored people in Harlem. Every effort
has been made artificially to depress the
value of real estate in that section, and
financial institutions, including those
which carry thousands of dollars belong-
ing to colored people on deposit, have
refused to renew the most reasonable
mortgage propositions. If the Negro
was a large capitalist like the Jew he
could reap great advantage from this
campaign by simply buying up this de-
pressed property. Some day, through
widespread co-operation, colored people
will learn to do this.
To-day the real-estate sharks know
that this is impossible and they are
counting on this fact. Lately a second
step has been taken which is to organ-
ize a holding company to control the
mortgages and sometimes the property
of such owners as are willing to eject
Negro tenants. Of course, a little salve
of hypocrisy was needed to help in the
bolting of this morsel. Consequently,
the white Y. M. C. A. was found ready
to furnish a hall for the meeting of
these philanthropists and the scheme of
“Negro uplift” was announced with a
flourish, a part of which proposed the
colonization of all colored people in New
York on the pestilential mud flats of
Harlem, where with all the city’s crowd-
ing no one up to this time has been
willing to live.
But the 1Q0,000 colored people of New
York still have the whip hand if they
will only remember this: It is simply
necessary for colored families and
institutions to hold the property now
occupied not everywhere but at certain
strategic points. Of course the matter
of holding property at such strategic
points is difficult but possible. If the
property of the Negro churches is held
and the Y. M. C. A. really intends to
put its building in a decent site in
Harlem and the Y. W. C. A. follows
suit, and if the Colored Music School
Settlement buys a home—all this and
other possible co-operative effort will
settle the matter for a long time.

Colleges
and their
Graduates
in
1914
"P\ URING the com-
mencement season
of 1914 two hundred and
fifty colored students will
receive the Bachelors de-
gree. This is a larger
number than has been
graduated in recent years
and perhaps the largest
ever graduated from col-
leges ranking as high as
colored colleges do to-day.
Under the lower require-
ments of 1905 there were
two hundred and sixty-
seven graduates. It is
one of the most reassuring
aspects of the progress of
the Negro race in America
that, despite every possible
discouragement and argu-
ment the colored people
realize to so great an ex-
A. L. JACKSON, CLASS ORATOR. HARVARD. T4.
tent that their future in America and in the
world must, in the long run, depend upon
the trained intellects of their most gifted
men. The sending of colored boys and girls
to college to-day is discouraged within the
race and without. A long campaign of ridi-
cule, abuse and argument has tried to tell
colored people that the .higher training of
youth is unnecessary and wasteful. Outside
the Negro race philanthropists have been un-
willing to help Negro colleges or to encour-
age Negroes to go to college. Bright gradu-
ates of industrial schools have had every dif-
ficulty placed in .their pathway to keep them
from taking higher and broader courses.
Only indomitable perseverance has put such
men as W. T. B. Williams, of Hampton, and
George W. Crawford, of Tuskegee, through
Harvard and Yale. Northern white colleges,
have, in the last ten years, ceased to en-
courage Negro students and, in many cases,
actively discouraged them. The latest case
of this is Cornell University, where a quiet
attempt is .being made to drive the colored
students out of the dormitories. In some
places prospective colored students are tact-
fully discouraged, as when a colored boy
wrote to Ohio State University to ask about
a course in Engineering, he was sent this
encouraging answer by the President: “I
should be very glad to aid you in any way
possible in securing an education in Elec-
trical Engineering. I regret to say, how-
ever, that I have nothing at my disposal for
your encouragement. There is no objection
to your coming to the Ohio State University
A MISSIONARY IN EDUCATION ANI
W
—
A RECENT CLASS (See Page 11S>
132
THE CRISIS
MR. R. B. JACKSON,	MISS E. C. CONNOR,	MR. L. R. POSEY,
Atlanta University.	Atlanta University.	Fisk University.
and entering any course for which you are
qualified. Every year we have a number of
young people of both sexes of the Negro race
who attend the University without any em-
barrassment or hindrance. The way is en-
tirely open so far as that is concerned, and
I shall be glad to be of any assistance to
you in my power.
"On one matter, however, I feel con-
strained to say just a word. The sentiment
north of the Ohio River seems to be so per-
sistent against the Negro in skilled labor that
I doubt very much whether an educated
Negro has a fair show or a show worth while
in this part of the country.‘,
At Smith College this year the usual bat-
tle “along the color line” had to be fought
and, fortunately, justice and decency pre-
vailed. Both Columbia and Chicago Uni-
versities have been active lately in discour-
aging colored students in their summer
schools by various devices.
Despite all this, colored boys and girls go
to college, and colored colleges survive. At-
lanta University graduates ten college stu-
dents led by Eva Cornelia Connor and Rob-
ert Benton Jackson. Fisk University sends
out thirty-five Bachelors and two Masters led
by Sadie Iola Daniel, summa cum laude,
and Leroy Raadel Posey. Benedict College
graduates seven college students led by Juli-
ette Alberta Boykin and Edith Corinne
Bishop. Julius C. Bryant and Charles L.
Jefferson rank highest in the class of thirty-
five Bachelors from Lincoln University.
Wilberforce University sends out three col-
lege graduates led by Charles E. Burch. Ar-
kansas Baptist College graduates five college
students led by Claiborne F. Taylor and
John R. Booker. Eight Bachelors from
Virginia Union University are led by Vattel
E.	Daniel and N. D. Ovderinde. Isaiah H
Bonner and Herman H. Black lead the class
of three sent out by Knoxville College.
James Brooks Dickens is the honor student
in the class of four Bachelors graduating
from Lane College. Talladega College con-
fers five Bachelors’ degrees. Walden Uni-
MR. H. R. TURNER,
Rhode Island College.
MISS VIVIEN HUNTER,
University of Minnesota.
MR. WALTER MADDUX.
University of Kansas.
COLLEGES AND THEIR GRADUATES
133
"MISS P. R. OBERDORFER, *	MISS J. A. BOYKIN.	MISS L. M. PETTIJOHN.
Howard University.	MISS E. C. BISHOP,	Delaware Slate College.
Benedict College.
versity graduates nine college students led
by Earnest Charles Martin and Luther Ed-
gar Vincent. Ambrose Nutt and James H.
Jones lead the college class of six graduated
by Morehouse College. Five students led by
Ethelyn Gardner and Fannie Mason receive
Bachelors’ degrees from Spelman seminary.
Howard University confers sixty-eight Bach-
elors’ degrees—forty-nine in the College of
Arts and Sciences with Eva B. Dykes, summa
cum laude, and Lloyd H. Newman leading
and nineteen in the Teachers’ College with
Pauline Richardson Oberdorfer and Olive
Mae Wells leading. Thi^ is the largest col-
ored college class in modern history. Mor-
ris Brown College graduates two college stu-
dents, J. Wesley Butts and C. H. Fountain.
Leola May Pettijohn ranks first in the college
class graduates from the Delaware State Col-
lege for Colored Students.
The fifteen colleges enumerated will con-
fer two hundred Bachelor of Arts degrees,
eleven Bachelor of Science degrees and two
Master of Arts degrees. There are probably
at least twenty-five other college graduates
from institutions which have not reported
to us.
Turning to Northern colleges Harvard
sends out this year two Bachelors of Arts,
one of whom, A. L. Jackson, is class orator,
and the other, Lucius Lee Jordan, takes his
degree cum laude. There are also two grad-
uates in Law, Benjamin A. M. Green and
Beecher A. Jackson, and one in Divinity,
James A. Wright. Yale sends out two grad-
uates from the School of Religion, Edward
K.	Nichols and Aiken A. Pope. From Co-
lumbia Willis N. Huggins graduates as Bach-
elor of Science from the Teachers’ College,
and Bvrou K. Armstrong, Clayton
French and Samuel Rose receive Masters
degrees. From Oberlin University there
are five graduates with Bachelors’ degrees,
Kathryn E. Stewart, L. Emmet Drewry,
Ruby M. Wiley, H. H. Jones and Iphigenia
Coles; there are also two Masters in Arts,
Mary E. Brown and Laura F. Grayson, and
one graduate in Theology, Arnold E. Gre-
gory. From the University of Michigan
there are the following graduates: J. M.
MR. A. B. NUTT,	MR. C. L. JEFFERSON.	MR. J. C. BRYANT,
Morehouse College.	Lincoln University.	Lincoln University.
134
THE CRISIS
MR. LEROY ROBBINS.	MRS. G. E. RUSH,	* MR. A. E. GREGORY,
University of Kansas.	Des Moines College.	Oberlin College.
Gregory, Surgical Dentistry; J. A. Frank-
lin, Medicine; Charles Campbell, Law;
Curtis Jenkins and Charles A. Johnson,
Pharmacy. Mr. Gregory has made an espe-
University there are three graduates with
Masters’ degrees, Thomas I. Brown, E. M. A.
Chandler and John Pjirnell. Mr. Brown was
Assistant Editor of the College Monthly.
V: -"'V \n •
MR. J. M. GREGORY,	MR. E.‘ K. NICHOLS,	MR. G. C. ELLIS,
University of Michigan.	Yale University.	University of Illinois.
cially good record, standing so high as to be
exempt from most examinations. Walter
Depou took his Master’s degree from the Uni-
versity of Chicago in August. From Clark
Two Bachelors, John Eckles and William
Haynes; one Engineer, Thomas Bailey, and
three Pharmacists, H. D. Primes, W. W.
Stewart and W. W. Wilson, are sent out
MR. J. H. ECKLES,
University of Pittsburg.
MR. W. H. HUGGINS,
Columbia University.
MR'. W. G. MOSELY.
University of Colorado.
COLLEGES AND THEIR GRADUATES
135
MR. J. R. BOOKER,
Arkansas Baptist College.
from the University of Pittsburgh. Vivien
A. Hunter receives a Bachelor’s degree from
the University of Minnesota. The University
of Kansas sends out three Bachelors, Edward
MR. C. F. TAYLOR,
Arkansas Baptist College.
versity. Dickinson College sends out one
student of Law, J. Stewart Davis. Nathaniel
Wiley receives a Bachelor of Science degree
from Ohio University. Wheaton College
MR. J. H. JONES,
Morehouse College.
MISS S. G. DANIELS,
Fisk University.
MR. J. B. DICKENS,
Lane College.
MR. C. E. BURCH,
Wilberforce University.
Baker, Walter Maddux and Neosho Vener-
able, and one graduate in Fine Arts, Leroy
Robbins. Hazel Jean Lewis completes a
Teacher’s Training Course in Miami Uni-
sends out one Bachelor, J. Henry Lewis.
Henry I. Asher takes a Bachelor’s degree at
Indiana University. Harvey R. Turner
completes a course in Civil Engineering at
MR. J. H. PURNELL,
Clark University.
MR. E. J. CHEEKS.
Purdue University.
MR. T. M. BAILEY.
University of Pittsburg.
136
THE CRISIS
MR. L. E. DREWRY*
Obcrlin ' College.
MR. U. S. DONALDSON,
Hillsdale College.
MR. H. C. ASHER,
Indiana University.
Rhode Island College. Hillsdale College
sends out one Bachelor, U. S. Donaldson.
Washburn College confers a Bachelor’s de-
gree upon Arthur W. Hardy. Mrs. Ger-
sends out one Master of Science, St. Elmo
Brady, and one Bachelor, George C. Ellis.
William G. Mosely takes a Bachelor’s degree
at the University of Colorado. Benjamin T.
MR. NATHANIEL WILEY,	MR. E. M. A. CHANDLER,
Ohio University.	Clark University.
MR. S. E. BRADY,
University of Illinois.
trude E. Rush takes a Bachelor’s degree at Withers graduates from the College of Den-
Des Moines College. Elmer J. Cheeks com- tal and Oral Surgery in New York City with
pletes the Electrical Engineering course at Honorary Mention. Daniel David Fowler
Purdue University. The University of Illinois graduates from the Mining Enginering De-
MR. J. A. WRIGHT,
Andover Theological Seminary.
MR. L. L. JORDAN.
Harvard.
MR. J. W. CRUMP,
University of Iowa.
COLLEGES AND THEIR GRADUATES
137
MR. H. H. BLACK,	MR. L. E. VINCENT,	MR. E. C. MARTIN,
Knoxville College.	Walden University.	Walden University.
partment of the Case School of Applied
Science. From the Dental Department of
Temple University are sent out, Clarence
Bailey, Charles Ferguson, John Holley, Per-
from the Domestic Science Department of
Drake University.
In all, we have received of the following
degrees: Master of Arts, five; Master of
MR. T. I. BROWN,	MISS H. J. LUCAS,	MR. J. A. FRANKLIN.
Clark University.	Miami University.	University of Michigan.
cival Johnson, Cenute Richardson; from the
Medical Department are sent, George Fal-
coner, Arthur Johnson, George Walker and
John Watkins. Martha Loeffler graduates
Science, one; Bachelor of Arts, nineteen;
Bachelor of Science, seven; Bachelor of Mu-
sic, one; Law, six; Engineering, four; Medi-
cine, Pharmacy and Dentistry, fourteen;
MR. N. D. OGERINDE.
Virginia Union University.
MR. I. H. BONNER.
Knoxville College.
MR. V. E. DANIEL,
Virginia Union University.
138
THE CRISIS
MISS M. E. BROWN,	MISS K. E. STEWART,	MISS IPHIGENIA COLES,
Oberlin.	Obcrlin.	Oberlin.
Theology, four; Fine Arts, one; Teacher’s
Training Course, one. There are probably
ten or twelve other colored graduates of
which we have no record.
The colored colleges of the South seem to
have had a fairly prosperous year. Fisk
has gotten the beginning of her endowment;
Walden has a new President, George F. Dur-
gin, who has begun the erection of new build-
ings and will raise the standard of the cur-
riculum; Spelman Seminary has appointed
a Supervisor of Industrial Work in Rural
Schools in Fulton County. The Hon. Wil-
liam Jennings Bryan, Secretary of State,
delivered the commencement address at
Howard.
Miss Laura Wheeler, a colored girl of
Hartford, Conn., has been awarded a Euro-
pean Traveling Scholarship by the Pennsyl-
vania Academy of Fine Arts for her work
in the Illustration Department.
Miss Isabel Vandervall, of Orange, N. J.,
a Junior in the New York Medical College
and Hospital. for Women, received both
prizes which are usually awarded to mem-
bers of her class. At the commencement
exercises, which were held in the Waldorf
Astoria, the first prize, <$25.00 in gold, was
awarded Miss Vandervall for attaining the
highest average in her class for the year;
she received the second prize, a gold watch,
which is given by Judge Alfred Ommen, for
making the highest mark in the Medical
Jurisprudence Examination.
Messrs. J. E. Rose, Howard University
1913, and Mordecai W. Johnson, University
of Chicago 1913, the only Negro students at
the Rochester Theological Seminary, have
each won an Honor Scholarship of $250 for
the year 1914-1915.
The intercollegiate essay contest prize of
$50 offered a year ago.by Prof. Kelly Miller
for the best essay on “The Effect of Eman-
cipation upon the Physical Conditon of the
Negro” has been awarded to Adolph Hodge,
of Howard University.
Julian H. Lewis, a young colored man of
Cairo, 111., has been awarded the second an-
nual Howard Taylor Rickett prize of $250
by the medical faculty of the University of
Chicago for original research work in the
department of pathology. Mr. Lewis re-
mr. j. s. DAVIS,
Dickinson College.
MR. CHARLES CAMPBELL,
University of Michigan.
MR. D. D. FOWLER.
Case School of Applied Science.
COLLEGES AND THEIR GRADUATES
139
MR. W. G. HAYES,	MISS L. F. GRAYSON,	MR. A. W. HARDY,
University of Pittsburg.	Oberlin.	Washburn College.
ceived bis Master’s degree from the Univer-
sity of Illinois in 1912, and entered Chicago
University in the fall of that year.
In two colleges there have been adminis-
tration difficulties between teachers, and stu-
dents, Shaw and Clark (South Atlanta, Ga.).
Shaw has, unfortunately been compelled to
give up her medical school. No conspicuous
gifts to Negro education have been made
during the year but several bequests of
$5,000 to $20,000 have been made. At the
spring meeting of John D. Rockefeller’s
$40,000,000 education foundation Board,
$15,000 was added to the annual subscrip-
tion of $10,000
toward the cur-
rent expenses of
Hampton, an an-
nual subscription
of $10,000 was
made to Tuskegee
and one of $15,-
000 to Spelman
Seminary;	$36,-
000 was appro-
priated for the
maintenance of
Rural School Su-
pervisors in each
of the Southern
States. Colored
summer schools
are becoming
better organized
and larger in five
or six leading
centers.
The American
Colonization So-
ciety, whose in-
vested funds have
been used chiefly to pay salaries in the last
five decades, has transferred a sum of $60,-
000 to Liberia for an industrial school.
The United States Bureau of Education
has co-operated with the Phelps-Stokes
Fund to make a study of Negro institutions.
As the investigators, so far as known, repre-
sent the industrial idea chiefly, some appre-
hension is felt by Negro colleges as to the
forthcoming report
The year in athletics and debates has been
interesting. Atlanta, Fisk and Howard de-
bated the Monroe doctrine and Atlanta and
Howard were victorious. Wilberforce won the
debate on govern-
ment ownership
of telegraph and
telephone sys-
tems with How-
ard. No general
athletic cham-
pionship between
colored colleges
has been estab-
lished, but in At-
lanta Morris
Brown College
leads in baseball
this . year, not
having lost a sin-
gle game. In the
annual track
meet participated
in by the four
Atlanta colleges,
Morehouse won
the most points.
Fisk and Howard
have played up
to their usual
standard.
••RICHELIEU" AT HOWARD UNIVERSITY.
THE CRISIS
MISS N. E. VENERABLE,	LLOYD H. NEWMAN,	EVA B. DYKES.
University of Kansas.	Howard University.	Howard University.
A YEAR’S WORK
Reports of the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People
at the Baltimore Meeting
ESIDE the executive officers
from the New York office,
there were twelve dele-
gates, representing thirteen
branches of the Associa-
tion in various parts of the
country, and also several
written reports.
A brief resume of some of these reports
follows:
Cleveland
Mr. Harry E. Davis reported that the
branch started with 21 members and now
enroll over 200. When only three weeks old
it arranged the largest meeting in the inter-
est of colored people ever held in Cleveland.
The attendance was over 2,500,' including
many prominent white citizens, and Dr.
Spingarn made the chief address. Prejudice
against colored people in Cleveland is less
pronounced than in many places, but there
is discrimination in restaurants and other
public places, and recent attempts at dis-
crimination in certain public institutions.
An effort has been made also to insert
clauses in real estate deeds restricting trans-
fer of property to colored citizens. The
branch plans a legal defense fund and a
large increase in members.
Howard University
Mr. S. A. Allen, President of the Univer-
sity Chapter, outlined its history and work.
It has listened to addresses by Dr. Spingarn,
Mr. Neval Thomas, Prof. Kelly Miller, Prof.
L.	B. Moore, President Newman, Mr. Archi-
bald Grimke, Mr. W. A. Hawkins. It has
celebrated the birthdays of Lincoln and
Douglass, and presented a picture of Lin-
coln to the University. The Chapter has en-
couraged the organization of branches in
other colleges and has already started two
such branches. It has protested to the Na-
tional Biscuit Company for discharging em-
ployees and attempting a boycott.
Kansas City
Mr. J. D. Bowser told of the fight in this
city against segregation and the "Jim Crow”
street laws which has been successful. The
branch also protested against the refusal to
admit colored welfare workers to a factory
in Kansas City and has received assurance
that in future no such discrimination will be
made. Not being able to secure admission to
the public bath house the branch has sue-
A YEAR’S WORK
141
ceeded in having a colored bath house erected
with all modern appliances. The branch has
also successfully contested state bills against
intermarriage.
Quincy, Illinois
This branch was first organized four years
ago as a civic league to maintain the rights
of colored children in the city public schools.
It finally became a branch of the Associa-
tion with several distinguished white mem-
bers. It has suffered in the past year be-
cause of the activity of a certain Z. W. Mit-
chell, who has a notorious record in Ohio,
Minnesota and Canada.
Minneapolis and St. Paul
Father Theobald, a colored priest of the
Catholic Church, reported for both these
benches. They have been but recently or-
ganized and include representative colored
and white people. The St. Paul branch has
held several notable meetings and the Minne-
apolis branch has two pieces of work: one
under Father Cleary, is an endeavor to ob-
tain better employment for colored youth;
the other movement is an attempt to check
growing discrimination in public schools.
Rabbi Dinehart has made several addresses
for the Association and has asked the
churches in Minneapolis to devote one Sun-
day a year to the Negro problem.
Baltimore
Dr. Cardoza, President of the branch, re-
ported successful meetings and campaigns
for new members and the work of legal re-
dress. Since January they have secured an
order from Judge Dawkins declaring that
if the Baltimore, Chesapeake and Annapolis
Steamboat Company did not furnish equal
accommodations for colored and white pas-
sengers, he would see that they were forced*
to do so. The last legislature considered a
“Jim-Crow” street car bill and a bill to en-
able cities and towns to segregate colored
people. Both these bills were killed largely
as a result of hard work on the part of the
Branch.
Detroit
Father Bagnall, a colored Episcopal Rec-
tor, reported that this branch was not gen-
erally well-known in the city until Dr. Spin-
garn’s visit. The branch has been divided
into two great committees, each having week-
ly meetings. During the past year fourteen
cases of discrimination in theatres have been
fought and four of them won. The Ford
Automobile Shop began to discriminate
against colored people in some lines of work,
but this has been stopped and three colored
electricians are now employed in the plant
at a wage of nine dollars a day. Qne of them
works side by side with Mr. Ford. During
Mr. Spingarn’s visit colored people were for
the first time admitted to the largest hotel
to attend a banquet given in his honor.
Boston
Mr. Butler Wilson, Secretary, said that
the branch had in its membership a large
number of sons and daughters of the aboli-
tionists. During the year one hundred pub-
lic and semi-public meetings have been held.
The legal redress committee is at present
trying to secure the indictment of certain
wealthy and influential white men who made
a most outrageous assault upon a defense-
less colored servant girl. The branch has
been fighting the policy of certain depart-
ment stores in naming a new color shade in
a manner insulting to colored people. Sev-
eral of the stores have ceased the custom.
District of Columbia
Mr. Neval H. Thomas spoke of three lines
of work in this branch: first, to reach the
masses of colored people with our propa-
ganda; second, to raise funds, and third, to
fight hostile legislation. A series of remark-
able mass meetings have been held and the
Committee of Fifty and More has carried
the message of the Association to churches,
lodges and neighborhoods. The branch has
contributed $3,883 to the New York head-
quarters and hopes it can soon contribute
$1,000 a month. Mr. Grimke, the President,
has represented the Association at congres-
sional hearings and has been largely instru-
mental in securing the postponement of seg-
regation bills. He made an effective protest
against the intermarriage bill, and succeeded
in hastening plans for the new colored high
school. The branch has secured a column
each week in the new colored newspaper, the
Washington Sun, where an account of the
work will be published regularly.
Chicago
Mr. Hallinan, one of the directors, told of
a fight made in the Illinois legislature against
five intermarriage bills, a “Jim Crow” car
bill, and a bill discriminating against colored
chair car porters. A vigilance committee
has been formed and is now fighting with
vigor a case of incendiarism where the home
142
THE CRISIS
of a colored chaffeur in Oak Park was
burned. A committee is seeking to amend
the Stato Civil Rights Bill so as to include
cemeteries and hospitals. A case arose
where a colored family, having made several
burials in one cemetery was refused the
right to bury the rest of the family. This
case is now before the United States Su-
preme Court on appeal. Two or three of the
thirty hospitals in Chicago have begun to
advertise that they do not take colored pa-
tients, and attempted segregation and dis-
crimination in the public schools are creep-
ing in. All these matters the branch is fight-
ing vigorously.
There were also reports from Indianapolis,
Providence, and the recently formed Harris-
burg branch.
A Crisis Agent and Organizer
Miss Katherine M. Johnson, who began
as an agent of The Crisis in Kansas City,
Kansas, and who has, in the last year travel-
led over the South and West in the interest
of The Crisis and the Association, made a
vivid report. She found the colored people
of Texas sympathetic but, on the whole,
afraid to organize branches lest it be known
that they were affiliated with the descendants
of the abolitionists. In several towns there
were some threats of violence, particularly
one, where they had recently lynched a
Negro. In Louisiana the percentage of illit-
eracy is very high. Most of the colored
people had never heard of the Association.
It was reported to Miss Johnson that in
seventy parishes in the state there was not a
single school building for colored children,
and that in New Orleans only 8,000 out of
28,000	colored children of school age were
enrolled.	The Crisis
The manager of The Crisis reported that
the net paid circulation of The Crisis for
the month of May was 35,938 copies. He
described the difficulties of magazine making
to-day, the severe competition of ten and
fifteen cent publications, and the difficulty
of securing advertising for a publication like
The Crisis. Already The Crisis has a cir-
culation twice as large as any publication
issued in the interest of colored people. It
has a force of over seven hundred agents in
all parts of the Union, in all our depen-
dencies, in South America and the West In-
dies, and in Europe, Asia, Africa and Aus-
tralia. Nevertheless, it must have a larger
circulation in order to solve its peculiar
problem. We ought to have 50,000 sub-
scribers immediately and 100,000 within five
years. Already The Crisis subscription list
is a sort of national directory of influential
colored people and their sympathizers. It
should be made even more complete in this
respect.
The Office of the Secretary
The Secretary of the Association, Miss
May Childs Nerney, reported briefly on the
work of field organization. She said that
the membership of the Association was now
over 4,000, there were 27 branches, 6 wait-
ing for admission, and about 40 locals which
may become branches. These range as far
South as Shreveport, La., and Talladega,
Ala., and west to San Francisco and Seattle.
She reported equally encouraging progress
in organization work at Headquarters. '|he
debt has been raised, there is modern equip-
ment and a trained staff.
The Secretary called attention to the work
of some of the largest branches and de-
scribed the fight against discriminating
measures introduced in Congress with which
the Association had been kept in touch
through its legislative expert in Washington.
She also mentioned the fact that often the
Association does important work for which
it is unable to get credit and cited as an il-
lustration a recent case in a well known edu-
cational institution,’ where the Association
won a distinct victory but had been requested
by the people concerned to give the matter
no publicity.
Miss Nerney told of the organization of
the Press Bureau and the difficulties under
which publicity work for such an unpopular
cause as ours must be done.
Mr. Villard in the West
Mr. Villard spoke in St. Louis on Monday,
May 11, meeting the Executive Committee of
the St. Louis branches of the Urban League
and the N. A. A. C. P. in the afternoon at
the public library. In the evening he ad-
dressed the annual conference of the C. M.
E.	Church at which a number of prominent
colored bishops were present. He spoke be-
fore a fine meeting of the Kansas City
branch of the N. A. A. C. P. Wednesday
evening, May 13, in the Second Baptist
Church, Mr. H. M. Beardsley, ex-Mayor of
Kansas City, and one of the strongest men
in the West, presiding at the meeting. This
resulted in an increased membership for the
branch. The next evening Mr. Villard ad-
MY HOUSE
143
dressed the Topeka branch at a meeting at
the First Methodist Church which was pre-
sided over by Mr. Arthur Capper, the Pro-
gressive candidate for Governor, and fore-
most newspaper proprietor of Kansas. Mr.
Frank P. MacLennan of the Kansas State
Journal, introduced Mr. Villard. On the
next day, Friday, May 15, Mr. Yillard spoke
before the City Club in Kansas City, and in
the afternoon met a group of leading work-
ers of the Kansas City branch at the resi-
dence of Mr. Taylor. Many of the auditors
of the City Club were Southerners by birth
and education, but they listened intently to
Mr. Villard’s address on ‘‘Some Traitors to
the South.” On Saturday evening, May 16,
Mr. Villard spoke in the Unitarian Church
at Indianapolis before a large audience of
white and colored friends of the N. A. A. C.
P. Sunday evening he spoke in Bethel
Church under the auspices of the Indianap-
olis branch, going directly from the meeting
to the train for Cleveland, where he spoke
in the evening at St. John’s A. M. E. Church.
Perhaps the most important meeting of the
entire trip was the closing address at a lun-
cheon of the Cleveland Chamber • of Com-
merce on Tuesday, May 19, where nearly
one hundred of the prominent business men
of the city listened to Mr. Yillard’s address
and asked a number of questions at the con-
clusion. The day previous Mr. Villard was
the guest at a private luncheon of fourteen
or fifteen of the leading men of the city all
of whom expressed the deepest interest in
the color problem and were eager to hear of
the work of the N. A. A. C. P. Mr. Yillard
was struck by the many warm friends of the
race to be found in both Cleveland and In-
dianapolis, and the friendly feeling of: many
of the leading newspaper men in Topeka,
Indianapolis, and Cleveland.
MY HOUSE AND A GLIMPSE OF
MY LIFE THEREIN
BY JESSIE FAUSET
AR away on the top of a
gently sloping hill stands
my house. On one side
the hill slopes down into a
valley, the site of a large
country town; on the other
it descends into a forest,
thick with lofty trees and green, growing
things. Here in stately solitude amid such
surroundings towers my dwelling; its dull-
red brick is barely visible through the thick
ivy, but the gleaming tops of its irregular
roof and sloping gables catch the day’s sun-,
light and crown it with a crown of gold.
An irregular, rambling building is this
house of mine, built on no particular plan,
following no order save that of desire and
fancy. Peculiarly jutting rooms appear,
and unsuspected towers and bay-windows,—
the house seems almost to have built itself
and to have followed its own will in so doing.
If there be any one distinct feature at all,
it is that halls long and very broad traverse
the various parts of the house, separating a
special set of rooms here, making another
division there. Splendid halls are these,
with fire places and cosy arm-chairs, and
delightful, dark corners, and mysterious
closets, and broad, shallow stairs. Just the
place in winter for a host of young people
to gather before the fire-place, and with pop-
corn and chestnuts, stories and apples, laugh
away the speeding hours, while the wind
howls without.
The hall on the ground floor has smaller
corridors that branch off and lead at their
extremity into the garden. Surely, no par-
terre of the East, perfumed with all the
odors of Araby, and peopled with houris,
was ever so fair as my garden! Surely, no-
where does the snow lie so pure and smooth
and deep, nowhere are the evergreen trees
so very tall and stately as in my garden in
winter! Most glorious is it in late spring
and early June. Out on the green, green
sward I sit under the blossoming trees; in
sheer delightful idleness I spend my hours,
listening to the blending of wind-song with
the “sweet jargoning” of little birds. If a
shower threatens I flee across my garden’s
vast expanse, past the gorgeous rosebushes
and purple lilacs, and safe within my little
summer-house, watch the “straight-falling
rain,” and think of other days, and sighing
wish that Kathleen and I had not parted in
anger that far-off morning.
144
THE CRISIS
When the shower ceases, 1 hasten down the
broad path, under the shelter of lofty trees,
until I reach one of my house’s many doors.
Once within, but still in idle mood, I perch
myself on a window-seat and look toward the
town. Tall spires and godly church steeples
rise before me; high above all climbs the
town clock; farther over in the west, smoke
is curling from the foundries. How busy is
the life beyond my house! Through the
length of the long hall to the window at the
opposite side I go, and watch the friendly
nodding of tall trees
and the tender inter-
course of all this beau-
tiful green life. Sud-
denly the place becomes
transformed—this is an
enchanted forest, the
Forest Morgraunt — in
and out among the trees
pass valiant knights and
distressed ladies. Pros-
per le Gai rides to the
rescue of Isoult la De-
sirous. Surely, the forest
life beyond my house is
full of purpose and ani-
mation, too.
From the window I
roam past the sweet, fa-
miliar chambers, to the
attic staircase, with its
half-hidden angles and
crazy old baluster. Up to
the top of the house I go,
to a dark little store-
room under the eaves. I
open the trap-door in the
middle of the ceiling,
haul down a small ladder,
mount its deliciously
wobbly length, and be-
hold, I am in my chosen
domain—a queen come
into her very own! If I
choose I can convert it
into a dread and inaccessible fortress, by
drawing up my ladder and showering nut-
shells and acorns down on the heads of
would-be intruders. Safe from all possible
invasion, I browse through the store of old,
old magazines and quaint books and jour-
nals, or wander half-timidly through my in-
finite unexplored land of mystery, picking
my way past heaps of delightful rubbish
and strong, secret chests, fancying goblins
in the shadowy cornere, or watching from
the little windows the sunbeams’ play on the
garden, and the grey-blue mist hanging far-,
off over the hollow valley.
From such sights-and fancies I descend to
my library, there to supplement my flitting
ideas with the fixed conception of others.
Although I love every brick and little bit of
mortar in my dwelling, my library is of all
portions the very dearest to me. In this
part of the house more than any place else,
have those irregular rooms been added, to
receive my ever-increasing store of books.
In the large room,—the library proper,—is
a broad, old-fashioned
fire-place, and on the
rug in front I lie and
read, and read again, all
the dear simple tales of
earlier days, “Mother
Goose,” “Alice in Won-
derland,” “The Arabian
Nights”; here, too, I
revel in modern stories
of impossible adventure.
But when a storm rises at
night, say, and the rain
beats and dashes, and
all without is raging, I
draw a huge, red arm-
chair before the fire and
curl into its hospitable
depths,
“And there I sit
Reading old things,
Of knights and lorn
damsels,
While the wind sings—
Oh, drearily sings!”
Off in one of the little
side-rooms stands my
desk, covered with books
that have caught m>
special fancy and awak-
ened my thoughts. This
is my living - room,
where I spend my
moods of bitterness and
misunderstanding, and questioning, and joy,
too, I think. Often in the midst of a heap of
books, the Rubaiyat and a Bible, Walter
Pater’s Essays, and “Robert Elsmere” and
“Aurora Leigh,” and books of belief, of in-
sinuation, of open unbelief, I bow my head
on my desk in a passion of doubt and ignor-
ance and longing, and ponder, ponder. Here
on this desk .is a book in which I jot down
all the little, beautiful word-wonders, whose
meanings are so often unknown to me, but
whose very mystery I love. I write, “In
THE BURDEN
145
Vishnu Land what Avatar?” and “After the
red pottage comes the exceedingly bitter
cry,” and all the other sweet, incomprehen-
sible fragments that haunt my memory so.
High up on many of the shelves in the
many rooms are books as yet unread by me,
Schopenhauer and Gorky, Petrarch and
Sappho, Goethe and Kant and Schelling;
much of Ibsen, Plato and Ennius and Fir-
dausi, and Lafcadis Hearn,—a few of these
in the original. With such reading in store
for me, is not my future rich?
Can such a house as this one of mine be
without immediate and vivid impression on
its possessor? First and most of all it im-
bues me with a strong sense of home; ban-
ishment from my house would surely be life’s
most bitter sorrow. It is so eminently and
fixedly mine, my very own, that the mere
possession of it,—a house not yours or an-
other’s, but mine, to live in as I will,—is
very sweet to me. It is absolutely the chey
soi of my soul’s desire. With this sense of
ownership, a sense which is deeper than I
can express, a sense which is almost a long-
ing for some unknown, unexplainable, en-
tire possession—passionate, spiritual absorp-
tion of my dwelling—comes a feeling that is
almost terror. Is it right to feel thus, to
have this vivid, permeating and yet wholly
intellectual enjoyment of the material love-
liness and attractiveness of my house? May
this not be perhaps a sensuality of the mind,
whose influence may be more insidious, more
pernicious, more powerful to unfit me for
the real duties of life than are other lower
and yet more open forms of enjoyment?
Oh, I pray not! My house is inexpressibly
dear to me, but the light of the ideal beyond,
“the light that never was on sea or land,” is
dearer still. '
This, then, is my house, and this, in meas-
ure, is my life in my house. Here, amid my
favorite books, and pictures, and fancies,
and longings, and sweet mysteries, shal) old
age come upon me, in fashion most inglori-
ous, but in equal degree most peaceful and
happy. Perhaps—that is! For after all my
house is constructed of dream-fabric, and
the place of its building is—Spain!

THE BURDEN

ANOTHER SOUTHERN DISASTER
HE News Leader, a “white”
afternoon paper of Rich-
mond, Va., is “opposed” to
woman suffrage and also
to Negroes. Recently it
offered Ten Dollars for
the best argument against
woman suffrage. The contest was very suc-
cessful. The Leader says:
“The contest editor, a man of some experi-
ence in this line of—well, we will call it
work, for short—is frank to confess that no
more interesting reading ever came under his
observation, no keener competition for first
honors was ever waged in a similar event in
his knowledge, and no more difficult contest
problem ever confronted him than of select-
ing what he thought the best answer in the
625 received.”
Then the managing editor wrote a right
gallant epistle:
“Dear Mrs. Goode,
“Herewith the News Leader wishes to hand
you a check for Ten Dollars ($10), for your
very excellent answer submitted in the con-
test, it having been declared the best re-
ceived. We congratulate you on your win-
ning the first prize, and hope that when
other contests are arranged we will see one
or more answers from you.
“The Contest Editor would like to publish
a photograph of you. Will you be kind
enough to oblige us by sending the picture,
which will be returned to you after an etch-
ing is made of it?
“Yours very truly,
(Signed) “Louis A. Macm:ahon,
“Managing Editor.”
November 1, 1913.
Mrs. Goode responded with her photo-
graph. It was not published in Ine Leader
for lack of space and so The Crisis is kind-
ly releasing the Leader of its natural em-
barrassment.
<rMy Dear Mrs. Goode” has also received
a most cordial appeal from the Virginia
ladies “Opposed,” etc. Mrs. Goode was
formerly an assistant in the Congressional
Library but went to Virginia to mother nine
children whose own mother was dead.
146
THE CRISIS
MRS. A. J. GOODE.
“The latter work is not productive of as
many luxuries as I enjoyed at Washington,
but the privilege of shaping so many young
lives after my ideas of the beautiful, gives
me a sense of happiness which words can-
not express/’
We are sorry that Mrs. Goode is opposed
to votes for women and we are also sorry for
the News Leader, but we think it quite per-
missible to chuckle quietly over the whole
affair.
m
CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
T? OR the first time in fifteen years, Dublin
has no Negro clerks in her postoffice.
James Tillery, who has held office here for
the past fifteen years, has been removed, and
Monday morning the order removing him
went into effect.
Postmaster V. L. Stanley received a tele-
gram several days ago from Congressman
Hughes stating that Tillery had been re-
moved, but the papers in the case did not
reach him until Saturday. It is understood
that the charges-against Tillery were incom-
petency and conduct unbecoming a postal
employe. It will be remembered that he was
indicted some time ago on the charge of ar-
son, and although this- indictment is several
years old he has never cleared up this charge
against him.
Tillery was put in as clerk in the Dublin
postoffice during the first administration of
President McKinley and Postmaster Clark
Grier over the protest of the people of both
the city and county and over the protest of
congressmep from the Eleventh district,
Hon. W. G. Brantley, who represented Lau-
rens at that time. He has held office con-
tinually since up to the last day of May,
this year.
Besides being the only Negro clerk in the
Twelfth district, Tillery was so far as known
the only Negro clerk in a postoffice in the
entire state. The people of Dublin and the
patrons of the Dublin office all over the
county generally commend Congressman
Hughes for having him removed.—Dublin
(Ga.) Courier-Herald.
Dear Sir:
Enclosed you will find a clipping from the
daily paper of my home which tells its own
story. I do not care a straw for the loss of
the job, but I do want it known that I was
put out for nothing in the world, but be-
cause my face was black. You will note that
Congressman Dudley M. Hughes, of the 12th
district, spent as much energy as it would
take to stop the Mexican war, to put out of
a job, one poor black man. I was under
the Civil Service law, and they could not
get anything against me whatever, but went
back five years and dug up an old case which
was brought against me for political reasons
and for which a court of law in Georgia
would have long ago put me away in the
penitentiary, if there had been the slightest
bit of.evidence. Hughes and the Postmaster,
V. L. Stanley, got after me as soon as the
Democrats came in power, but were long un-
able to show sufficient cause to remove me.
Finally, I was removed 60 days ago, but the
Postmaster, when he received the papers,
could not find anyone at the time competent
to fill my place; he and his assistant wrote
and made visits to both Macon and Atlanta
to find a white man who was competent to
take my position, and failing in this they
had to put up with a white man who has
been working in the office for several years
but who they all agree is not as competent as
I was. I would like to give this matter as
wide airing as possible. I am going to write
the Civil Service Commission at Washington
to have the matter investigated, though I do
not have any hopes that they will. I would
not accept another position under the pre-
sent Postmaster, as a Negro cannot work
under him if he has a spark of manhood left
in him. I did not ask any favors, but fought
every move they made, and after doing this
I am perfectly satisfied.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
147
I am a reader of The Crisis, and always
will be, for we have got to fight our own
battles, and if I fight and lose, I do not give
up nor do I get discouraged. If I live I will
certainly meet them again.
Respectfully yours,
(Signed) James Tillery.
(We notice that Mr. Tillery runs a nice
little photographic gallery “on the side.”)
Do you like the
CRISIS?
If you do you are willing to help increase
its circulation. You can do that by speaking
to your friends about the magazine. If you
wish sample copies sent to your friends simply
drop us a card with names and addresses.
THE CRISIS
70 Fifth Avenue	New York City
PRINTING
To be of value, the printed page must make
its appeal by means of correct
STATIONERY
and must give evidence of careful and artistic
workmanship. The same is true of
ENGRAVING
We Print THE CRISIS
ROBERT N. WOOD, Printing and Engraving
202 EAST 99th STREET	Telephone: Lenox 6667	NEW YORK
Ambler, Pa., June 11, 1914.
Mrs. Harry C. Hart has not renewed her
subscription and does not wish to have the
Crisis sent to her because she does not find
that the paper teaches Peace, and does not
promote the mutual respect between the white
and colored races, which in the northern
states used to exist and which ought to exist
always.
(^afaxeA atjenLi ni«d e^cx^wive-Te ta Auppfy
tfuz	AemanA. jot ou/i	c^xcuLe (flafhruj
(^cltuLa. latest sty&s ami aI^ca ^ax Sadies ax
gentSameru,	ax Wilftotit add/xess, 400 |evt 50
cents ax 50 jar 25 cents Outfit ^xee
ccmmtAAioa (SxcftiAt^c texxitaxy. G(S axdexs
piffled, promptly 'TO'ute fax AompfcA anl texmS.
fjfve tlEotiAc a^ Qiavinincj, ifadianapaSis, ^fnd
Mention The Crisis
148
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
LET YOUR MONEY EARN A
CLEAR DIVIDEND
An investment in the Turner Building Limited, a company incorporated
to own and construct an office building on Lot 28, Block 13, River Lot 12
and 14, in the business district of the city of Edmonton, Province of Alberta,
Canada, will earn clear profit for you from the commencement of business.
This is not a speculation but an absolute legitimate, safe and profitable
investment showing a clear profit after all estimated expenses have been
paid. The building is already leased to a responsible realty broker of
Edmonton.
A limited number of shares are now offered to the public at $1 per
share. 70% of the total capital has already been arranged with local
Edmonton business men.
The fact that our proposition is centered in the city of Edmonton
needs no further assurance as to the ultimate value of our proposition.
Edmonton today is the fastest growing city on the continent, with a popula-
tion of 75,000 and increasing at the rate of 15,000 annually. Our property
is now worth $10,000 and undoubtedly within a few years will be worth
twice the amount.
Owing to the limited amount of space we are unable to produce here
all of the good qualities of our proposition. We invite you to address the
Turner Building Limited, 102 Brown Building, Edmonton, for further and
complete information or cut out the following coupon and mail at once.
INFORMATION COUPON
Cut out this blank and mail with check, postal or money order or
currency for one dollar for one share which will earn for you a clear profit
from the start and the investment will be continually increasing in value.
...............................1914
Clifford C. Mitchell,
Fiscal Agent, Turner Building, Ltd.,
102 Brown Bldg., P. O. Box 2, Edmonton, Canada.
Dear Sir: Enclosed please find $1 for 1 share of the Turner Building,
Limited.
Also please send without further obligation to me a prospectus of your
company and any further information that may induce me to subscribe
further.
It being understood that I am taking this share upon your representa-
tion that a clear profit will be made from the start.
You agreeing to return the money with 5% interest if the required
amount is not subscribed for within sixty days.
Name .......................................
Occupation .................................
Address.....................................
Mention The Crisis
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
149
Homes in Long Island!
Few people realize the wonderful possibilities of Long Island
property, the rapid growth of that section of the city and its wonderful
future.
WE ARE SELLING-GOOD HOMES IN CORONA, with all
improvements, only five cents carefare to New York. Corona is in the very
center of Greater New York, and in a few months will be reached by the
rapid transit lines of Manhattan, giving to the people of that section of the
city a five-cent carfare to any section of Manhattan.
The only place within thirty minutes of Times Square, Grand Central
Station or the Pennsylvania Station, where the man of small means can get
a modern home with all’improvements at a moderate cost. We would be
glad to have you visit Corona at our expense.
Corona is one of the highest elevations in New York City has an
excellent car service, good schools, excellent water supply and the best place
in all New York for children. For full particulars as to price and terms
address
L. S. REED & COMPANY
142 HUNTER AVENUE	::	::	::	LONG ISLAND CITY
Some choice investment lots for $50 on reasonable terms
Exclusive Territory.
100% Profit.
v •
■ ■ •.
$3000 FOR YOU
That’s the money yon should get this year. I mean it. I want County Sales Managers
quick, men or women who bolievo in the square deal, who will go into partnership with
me. No experience needed. My folding Bath Tub has taken the country by storm.
Solves the bathing problem. No plumbing, no water works required. Full length hath
in nny room. Folds in small roll, handy as on umbrella. I tell you it's greatl GREAT!
Rivals $2C0 bath room. Now listen! I want YOU to handle your county. I’ll furnish
demonstrating tub on liberal plan. I’m positive—absolutely certain—you can got bigger
money in a week with mo than you ever made in a month before. I KNOW 1T1
Two Sales a Day—
$300.00 a Month
That’s what you should get—every month,
eagerly bought. Modern bathing facili

Demonstrating ^
Tub
Fu rn ish.ee!
Needed in evory home, badly wanted,
itlcs for all the people. Tako tho orders right
and left. Quick sales, immense
■“ profits. Look at these men—
Smith, Ohio, got 13 orders first
week; Meyers. Wis.. $‘Jo0 profit first
month: Newton. California. $00 in
threo days. You should do os well. 2
SALES A DAY MEANS *300 A MONTH.
Tho work is very easy. pleasant,
permanent, fascinating. It means a
business of your own.
Little capital needed. I grant
credit—Help you out—Back you up
— Don’t doubt—Duu’t hesitate — Don’t
hold hack—You cannot lose. My other iiiuu arc
building houses, bank accounts, so can you. Act then
_ quick. SEND NO MONEY. Just name on penny post card
for free tub offer. Hustle!
HC Rnhinenn Proe 422 F-c,or,°» B,do-. TOLEDO, OHIO
• 0s nUUIIIbUIl | flCOi) Canadian Branch — Walkorvlll, Ont.
Mention The Crisis
150
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
A Selected List of Books
Postage Extra
The Quest of the Silver Fleece. (W. E. B. Du Bois)......... $1.35
House Behind the Cedars. (Charles W. Chesnutt)............. 1 -50
Hazel. (Mary White Ovington) .............................. 100
The Autobiography of an Ex-Colored Man. (Anonymous)........	120
Lyrics of Lowly Life. (Paul Laurence Dunbar)............... 1.25
The Marrow of Tradition. (Charles W. Chesnutt)............. 1.50
The Sport of the Gods. (Paul Laurence Dunbar) ............. 1.50
Norris Wright Cuney. (Maud Cuney Hare)..................... 1.50
A Narrative of the Negro. (Leila Amos Pendleton)........... 1.50
Souls of Black Folk. (W. E. B. Du Bois).................... 125
Race Adjustment. (Kelly Miller)............................. 2.00
History of the Negro. (B. G. Brawley)...................... 1 -25
Half a Man. (Mary White Ovington).......................... 100
Mind of Primitive Man. (Franz Boas)........................ 1.50
Aftermath of Slavery. (William Sinclair)................... 150
John Brown. (W. E. B. Du Bois)............................. 1.25
Liberia. (Frederick Starr)................................... 100
Facts of Reconstruction. (John R. Lynch)................... 150
Story of the Negro. 2 Volumes. (Booker T. Washington)......	3.00
Masterpieces of Negro Eloquence. (Alice Moore Dunbar, Editor) 2.50
Poems of'Paul Laurence Dunbar............................... 2.00
The African Abroad. 2 Volumes. (William H. Ferris)......... 5.00
Afro-American Folksongs. (H. E. Krehbiel)................... 2.00
Out of the House of Bondage. (Kelly Miller)................ 1.50
The Colored Inventor. (Henry E. Baker)........................15
A Child's Story of Dunbar. (Julia L. Henderson).............. .25
Address
THE CRISIS
70 Fifth Avenue	::	::	New York City
Mention The Cbisis
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
151
Masterpieces of
Negro Eloquence
Edited by Alice Moore Dunbar.
The one volume that contains the best
speeches of fifty-one of the ablest Negroes of
the United States, England, Africa and France,
from 1818 to 1913. The wonderful eloquence
of the most powerful Negro men and women
of the world is contained in this book. Nothing
more interesting and inspiring has ever been
written.
If you would know of the history of the
race, appreciate the sacrifice for principle,
understand the struggle for liberty, and properly
value the oratorical achievement of the Negro,
you should place this book in your library.
The "Masterpieces of Negro Eloquence” will take you back to 1818, when Prince
Saunders in his fascinating style eloquently pleaded for the abolition of slavery. It
will give you the speech of Henry Highland Garnett, the first Negro ever asked to
deliver a sermon in the United States House of Representatives; the speech of Frederick
Douglass, who in 1852 with unexcelled eloquence demanded at Rochester to know,
“What to the Slave Is the Fourth of July?”; the speech that made Booker Washington
famous; an estimate of Toussaint L’Ouverture. by James McCune Smith, that ranks
with Wendell Phillips’ famous eulogy; Charles M. Langston’s defiance of the Fugitive
Slave Law, delivered in 1859; Judge Ruffin’s famous eulogy of Crispus Attucks, a
speech that should be read by every Negro boy and girl.
These are but a few of the gems culled at random from this great book. The
best of our present generation is well represented.
This is a book that is a library, a reference book and an historical work, an indis-
pensable addition to the library of every intelligent Negro. A book that shows in the
oest manner the best that the Negro has done.
It is carefully edited, well printed* and thoroughly indexed, bound
in red and green silk cloth binding, 512 pages, gold top, uncut pages.
We want every reader of The Crisis to have a copy of this
book. We have set aside 50,000 copies whicti we are going to sell
to Tiie Crisis readers by allowing them to pay 50 cents down
and 50 cents monthly for four months.
Do not delay; sit down immediately, clip this coupon
and send it to us with 50 cents, and a copy will be sent
you by return mail.
CRISIS Coupon
CUT OUT AND
MAIL NOW
THE DOUGLASS PUBLISHING COMPANY
HARRISBURG, PA.
The Douglass Pub.
Co., 509 N. 4th St..
Harrisburg, Pa.
Enclosed find 50c., for
which send me a copy of
“The Masterpieces of Negro
Eloquence.” I promise to pay
50c. each month until $2.50 is
paid. Title of the book to re-
main with you until the sum of
$2.50 is paid.
Name
Address
Mention The Crisis
152
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
Atlanta University
Studies of the
Negro Problems
17 Monographs	Sold Separately
Address
ATLANTA UNIVERSITY CONFERENCE
ATLANTA UNIVERSITY	ATLANTA, GA.
The Curse of Race Prejudice
By James F. Morton, Jr., A. M.
An aggressive exposure by an Anglo-Saxon cham-
pion of equal rights. Startling facts and crushing
arguments. Fascinating reading. A necessity for
clear understanding and up-to-date propaganda. Be-
longs in the library of every friend of social justice.
Price 25 cents. Send orders to
JAMES F. MORTON, JR.
244 West 143d Street	New York, N. Y.
Valuable Book at Bargain Price*
Big 12c. Library of Popular Books for men, women
and children. Sample copy, 10c. Circulars free.
SUPERIOR SALES CO., Box 171, Milford, Ohio.
$25.00 PER WEEK
may be made in commissions by parties handling
“History of Negro Soldiers in Spanish-American
War” combined with "History of the Negro Race.”
400 pages, 50 illustrations. Price $1.25 net.
Address:	E. A. JOHNSON
154 Nassau Street	NEW YORK
AGENTS WANTED—Big seller. $3 to $5 per day.
Costs you from 10 to 20 cents; sells for 35 cents
and up. Sample-free for the asking.
G. A. ALBURY &: CO., P. O. Box 414, Bristol, Pa.
Made $30 First Day
B. Baa ho, of Boll Island, New-
foundland. did thLa with oar
CHAMPION
Minute Photo Machine
That beginners make auch profit
at tho etart, shows that no ex-
perience Is needed in this won-
derful money-making business.
Robt. Bock, Willow Hill. Pa . took
_ ,	in $36 In one day. Vernard Baker,
Holbrook, Neb., 829.90, Jas. P.Wonde. Aaliton. Idaho,
f2*- C.V. Lovett, Ft. Meade, Fla., made %U) In one day. Theae
testimonials are mat a tow of many hundred* we havo on file.
Pictures in Poet Garda and on Buttons all the rage
**	Carnivals, Picnics, Resorts, Schools, De-
pots, Factories, on Streets—any whore—everywhere.
a°?p,on Camera takes pictures size 2J$x3k.
lXxZifj and buttons. Finishes complete photo in 30
Mconda: 200 an boor. No dork room. Easiest, quickest,
DOW',Sll“r known. Small investment. About 86c
profit on «aeb dollar yoa take in. Bo your own boss. Writs at
tog Ftm Book, Testimoniilf tad Li bend Offer.
AMERICAN MINUTE PHOTO CO.
2214 Ogden Ave., Dept. A212, Chicago, 111.
MILES M. WEBB
School of Practical Photography
All branches of photography taught.
Terms reasonable. Service efficient.
Three courses : Amateur, intermediate,
professional. Register now.
3519 So. State Street Chicago, III.
Telephone Douglass 6688
ffilSfudGun
a
a
ft
E
ft
ft
fi
ft
ft
A
FULL CHOKE
Hammerlesv
Double-Barrel Shot
Gun—very superior. Fitted with
top snap-break, bar side locks, forged
frame, case hardened locks and frames. ■
Nicely finished, highly polished stock and
fore end. Polished blued steel barrels; b
choke bored, 12 Gauge and either 30 or 32
inch barrels. Well balanced and accurate, ge
A perfect beauty. The same model used by
some of the best shots in the country. We give it a
Absolutely FREE to Our Agents S
All that we require is that you show our O
samples and take a few orders for our
special made-to-measure clothes. We
pay highest cash profits and give extra
presents besides. Your choice of 628
valuable premiums—such as Leather Suit
Cases, Musical Instruments, Pipes,
Watches, Sporting Goods, Hats, * etc.
Write for elegant free outfit and full jxirticulart
SPENCER MEAD COM Dept. 873 CHICAGO
fi
1
I
1
Mention The Crisis
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
153
SCHOOL OF BEAUTY CULTURE AND HAIR DRESSING
Kelsey’s Hair Dressing, Hair Grower, Scalp Tonic and Face Lotion have no equal. Price, 50c. each.
Guaranteed under Food and Drug Act, June 30, 1906.
Manicuring, Shampooing, Hair Dressing, Marcel Wav-
ing. Facial and Body Massage, Hair Making, Chiropody,
etc., scientifically taught. Unlimited practice in parlor
day and night. Pupils taught at home, if desired.
Diplomas. Special Summer Course, $7.50 up. Send for
booklet. Mme. A. Carter Kelsey, Gen’l Instr.; Dr. Samuel
A. Kelsey, Chiropodist, President and Gen’l Manager.
KELSEY’S
Tclcphore, Morningside 8162
143 West 131st St.
NEW YORK
TP1? A if'1 ITP C The new efficiency era calls
il ICj /A111 jTj	for the modern way of
selecting teachers, through a live agency that furnishes
the connecting medium in a business way, saves time
of school officials, relieves teachers of the embarrass-
ment of job hunting and covers the whole country.
We have had calls for teachers from Alabama,
Arkansas, Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida,
Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Mis-
sissippi, Missouri, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Rhode
Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia
and West Virginia.
Our list of teachers covers even a wider territory.
WANTED
500 Negro families (farmers preferred)
to settle on FREE Government Lands in
Chaves County, New Mexico. Blackdom
is a Negro colony. Fertile soil, ideal
climate. No “Jim Crow” Laws. For
information write
THE MUTUAL TEACHERS’ AGENCY
1335 T Street, N. W.	Washington, D. C.
JAS. HAROLD COLEMAN
Blackdom	New Mexico
No. 24 Southern Buggy
Highest Grade
A Value L'n equaled. Sold on Ji.oo
Profit Margin	prom
Factory to User
Write for prices
anil other styles.
Send for catalogr
C. R. PATTERSON
A SONS.
Greenfield. Ohio
Largest Negro Carriage concern in the United States.
Start a Mail Order Business and Make Money
You can operate in your own home during spare
time. The parcel post has opened up the doors of
opportunity to YOU. Others are making $20 to $500
a week. Why can’t you? By our method you can
start with $5 and up. We offer you thirty live,
money-making mail order plans. You can make 95
cents profit of every dollar order. We furnish cir-
culars, printed matter and place your advertising at
lowest rates. Send 10 cents tor complete outfit. Do
it today—Now!
MAIL DEALERS WHOLESALE HOUSE
517 Dearborn Street	Chicago, 111.
MADAM:
TAKE NOTICE!
The Earle Mail Order House, on receipt of
$1.00, will mail you this combination:
1 Bottle Earle’s Famouj Princess Oil .... $.50
1 Jar Earle’s Cold Cream Skin and Complexion Food .25
1 Bottle Earle’s Violet Water ......	.50
With a fexv dollars we can put
you in mail order business.
WANTED
Agents for THE CRISIS. Dignified work.
70 Fifth Avenue, New York.
REGALIA	_____
Race Enterprise
Manufacturing Badges,
Banners and Supplies
for all Fraternal and
Church Societies. Cat-
alog upon request.
CENTRAL REGALIA CO.
Jo*. L. Jones, Pres.
N. E. Corner 8th and Plum Streets, Cincinnati. Ohio
If You Plan to Visit
New York This Summer
For study, sightseeing or pleasure
and desire quiet, respectable ac-
commodations with the best private
families, write the Housing Bu-
reau of the National League on
Urban Conditions Among Negroes,
at 127 W. 135th Street, New York.
Our Service Is Absolutely FREE
Addre..: P. O. BOX 390, NEWPORT, R. I.
Mention The Crisis
154
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
LEGAL DIRECTORY
Residence 2546 Michigan >	Office Phone
Bell Phone E-2161	Home 58 Main
C. H. CALLOWAY
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Notary Public
117 W. 6th Street	Kansas City, Mo.
/ Central 104-W
Telephones: { Main 61
HARRY E. DAVIS
Attorney-at-Law	Notary Public
1607 Williamson Building	Cleveland, Ohio
Office L. D. Telephone 3297 Market
Residence L. D. Telephone 5277-M Market
GEORGE A. DOUGLAS
Counselor-at-Law
Rooms 613-614, Metropolitan Building
113 Market St., Cor. Washington, Newark, N. J.
General Practice	Notary Public
WILLIAM R. MORRIS
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
1020 Metropolitan Life Building
Minneapolis	Minn.
BROWN S. SMITH
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Offices: Suite 610, Sykes Block
Minneapolis	Minn
GEORGE W. MITCHELL
Attorney-at-Law
908 Walnut Street
Philadelphia
Tel. 5437 Fort Hill	Cable Address, Epbcn
EDGAR P. BENJAMIN
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
34 School Street	1 Boston, Mass.
Telephone Connection
W. Ashbic Hawkins	George W. F. McMechen
HAWKINS & McMECHEN
Attorneys-at-Law
21 East Saratoga Street	Baltimore, Md.
Phones: Office, Bell 4059; New 420-M
Residence, New 733-A
THOS. E. GREENE, JR.
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Notary Public
Maloney Block	Youngstown, Ohio
B.	F. BOOTH
Attorney-at-Law
57 N. Second Street
Memphis	Tenn*.
THOMAS W. HOLMES
Attorney-at-Law
43J4 Decatur Street	Atlanta, Georgia
PERSONAL CARDS
Telephone 5277 Morningsidc
DR. GERTRUDE E. CURTIS
Surgeon Dentist
188 W. 135th Street	New York City
WILLIAM L. BELL
Architect
138Auburn Avenue	Atlanta, Ga.
E. ALDAMA JACKSON
Graduate Institute of Musical Art. Organist and Director
of Music St. Mark’s M. E. Church
Teacher of Theory and Piano
Theory course embraces elementary and advanced
Harmony or Counterpoint.
Private or Class Work
Studio: 30 W. 132d STREET. NEW YORK CITY
J . E . O R M E S
ACCOUNTANT
Audits	Systems
Business information by mail. Open for'
engagements July and August
Box 25, Wilberforce University
WilDcrforce, O.
Mr. Alfred Elis Du Bois, commercial agent
at Jeremie, Haiti, offers his services for all
kinds of business and exportation and im-
portation between Haiti and the United States.
Telephone 4214 Greeley
BRANIC’S EXPRESS
ANDREW J. BRANIC, Proprietor
Packing and Shipping—Goods Forwarded to All Parts
of the World
Orders by mail or ’phone receive prompt attention.
Trunks stored, 25c. per month.
459 Seventh Avenue	New York
A Trip to Washington this Summer?
Have your PHOTOGRAPH made by
SCURLOCK
Hundreds of CRISIS readers can tell you how good
Studio
900 U Street. N. W.. Washington. D. C.
Advertising Sales Agents Wanted at Once
Young men and women. Previous experience un-
necessary. Liberal pay while you learn. Permanent
position. Opportunity for advancement. An inde-
pendent income. Brilliant opportunity for trustworthy
young men and women. Vacancies are limited.
Answer immediately. Must have representatives in
every city and town in U. S. where not yet repre-
sented. Act quickly. Write at ONCE, enclosing 10
cents for full instructions and information. Address
Employment Department.
WATERS BROS.,
97 Wickliffe St.,	Newark, N. J., U. S. A.
Mention The Crisis
Business Block and Home Office of
The North Carolina Mutual
and Provident Association
DURHAM, N. C.
The Largest Negro Insurance Company
in the World
Five Million Dollars Insurance
One Hundred Fifty Thousand in Assets
Operating in North Carolina, South Carolina and Georgia on the
Mutual Life and Legal Reserve Basis
JOHN MERRICK	DR. A. M. MOORE
Founder and President	Secretary and Treasurer
C. C. SPAULDING
Vice-President and General Manager
Mention The Crisis
CAPE MAY, N. J.
This magnificent hotel, located in the heart of the most beautiful seashore resort in the world;
replete with every modern improvement, superlative in construction, appointments, service, and refined
patronage. Orchestra daily. Garage, bath houses, tennis, etc., on premises. Special attention given to
ladies and children. Send for booklet.	E. VV. DALE, Owner.
Provident Hospital and Training School
for Colored Nurses
Aim: To keep its technic equal to the best
36th and Dearborn Sts., Chicago, 111.
Founded 1891
The first training school for colored
nurses in this country, Freedman’s
excepted.
Comprises a training school for
nurses, hospital, dispensary, and
thoroughly equipped children’s depart-
ment; when funds are ample, post-
graduate work may be undertaken.
The hospital is open to all. The
races co-operate in the board of
trustees, in the medical staff and in
administration; the institution is the
only one of its kind in which a colored
man may act as interne.
Cost of buildings and equipment,
$100,000; free from debt. Endowment,
$50,000, contributed • mostly by wills
made by colored men. Additional en-
dowment needed, $50,000.
The nurses’ course covers three
years; training and instruction given
by both races, according to the highest
modern standards.
Mention The Crisis
The CRISIS
Vol. 8—No. 4	AUGUST, 1914	Whole No. 46
ONE DOLLAR A YEAR
TEN CENTS A COPY
The National Religious Training School
“I cordially commend the school's interest and needs to all who believe
in the Negro race and in our obligation to help promote its intellectual, moral
and religious uplift.”
—Rev. Dr. Charles H. Parkiiurst, New York City.
IT IS MORE THAN A MERE SCHOOL
IT IS A COMMUNITY OF SERVICE AND UPLIFT
Its influence is destined to be felt in all sections of the country in improved
Negro community life wherever our trained workers locate.
Settlement workers, missionaries for home and foreign mission fields, Y. M. C. A.
and Y. W. C. A. secretaries and district nurses receive a comprehensive grasp of their
studies under a Wellesley graduate and experienced co-workers and actual every-day
practice through the school’s SOCIAL SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
We aim also to create a better qualified ministry.
Industrial training, advanced literary branches, business school.
Thirty-two acres; ten modern buildings; healthful location.
We can accommodate a few more earnest, ambitious students.
Communities requiring social workers should write us.
For catalog and detailed information address:
PRESIDENT JAMES E. SHEPARD
National Religious Training School	Durham, N. C.
The school has no endowment fund and must raise a yearly maintenance fund
of $15,000 for running expenses. Won’t you help us this year?
The Cheyney Training School for Teachers
CHEYNEY, PENNSYLVANIA
Under the management of the Society of Friends. Beautifully located,
healthful, well appointed, and within easy reach of a great variety of educa-
tional institutions, public and private, extending from West Chester to
Philadelphia; representing a wide range of educational problems and
practice.
This school offers to young colored men and women who have a reasonable
secondary school preparation, and who earnestly desire to become teachers,
carefully graded courses in academic work, domestic science, domestic art,
manual crafts and agriculture. For teachers of experience and intending
teachers it offers also a six weeks’ summer-school course, extending from
July 1 to August 12. Tuition is free. Board, lodging, heat, light and
laundry privileges are offered for nine months for $100. The charge for
the same during the summer-school course is $15. Write for particulars to
LESLIE PINCKNEY HILL, Principal
Mention The Crisis
THE CRISIS
A RECORD OF THE DARKER RACES
PUBLISHED BY THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE. AT 70 FIFTH AVENUE. NEW YORK CITY
Conducted by
W. E. BURGHARDT DU BOIS
AUGUSTUS GRANVILLE DILL. Business Manager
Contents Copyrighted, 1 1914, by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People
Contents for August, 1914
PICTURES
COVER. “August.” A study from life by L. R. Miner.
SOCIAL LIFE IN COLORED AMERICA. III.—A Dinner at the Lo- Page
endi Club, Pittsburg. Photograph from life........ 182
ARTICLES
THE AWAKENING. A Poem. By	Otto Bohanan........... 171
HOW THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT
OF COLORED PEOPLE BEGAN. By Mary White Ovington.... 184
HIS MOTTO. A Story. By Lottie	Burrell Dixon.......... 188
THE NEW WILBERFORCE. (Illustrated)................... 191
DEPARTMENTS
ALONG THE COLOR LINE................................. 163
MEN OF THE MONTH..................................... 169
OPINION.............................................  172
EDITORIAL............................................ 179
PROBLEM LITERATURE ..................................' 195
THE BURDEN .......................................... 197
TEN CENTS A COPY; ONE DOLLAR A YEAR
FOREIGN SUBSCRIPTIONS TWENTY-FIVE CENTS EXTRA
RENEWALS: When a subscription blank is attached to this page a renewal or your subscrip-
tion is desired. The date of the expiration of your subscription will be found on the wrapper.
CHANGE OF ADDRESS: The address of a subscriber can be changed as often as desired.
In ordering a change of address, both the old and the new address must be given. Two weeks’
notice is required.
MANUSCRIPTS and drawings relating to colored people are desired. They must be accom-
panied by return postage. If found unavailable they will be returned.
Entered as Second-class Matter in the Post Office at New York, N. Y.
160
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
Atlanta University
Is beautifully located in the City of Atlanta,
Ga. The courses of study include High
School, Normal School' and College, with
manual traihing and domestic science. Among
the teachers are graduates of Yale, Harvard,
Dartmouth and Wellesley. Forty-five years
of successful work nave been completed.
Students come from all parts of the South.
Graduates are almost universally successful.
For further information address
President EDWARD T. WARE
ATLANTA, GA.
Knoxville College
Beautiful Situation. Healthful Location.
The Best Moral and Spiritual Environ-
ment. A Splendid Intellectual Atmos-
phere. Noted for Honest and Thorough
Work.
Offers full courses in the following departments:
College, Normal, High School, Grammar School and
Industrial.
Good water, steam heat, electric lights, good drain-
age. Expenses very reasonable.
Opportunity for self-help.
Fall Term Begins September, 1914.
For information address
President R. W. McGRANAHAN
KNOXVILLE, TENN.
The Agricultural and
Mechanical College
Maintained by the govern-
ments of North Carolina and
of the United States. Open
all the year round. For
males only. Fall term be-
gins September i, 1914.
Board, lodging and tuition,
$7 per month. Best oppor-
tunities for Negro youth.
Night school for indigent
but ambitious young men.
For catalog or further infor-
mation, address
PRESIDENT DUDLEY
A* & M. College Greensboro, N. C.
LINCOLN INSTITUTE
Jefferson City, Missouri
Founded by the Negro soldiers of
the 64th and 65th Regiments. Sup-
ported by the State of Missouri.
One of the best-equipped schools in
the country for the education of Negro
boys and girls. Normal, Collegiate,
Agricultural and Industrial Courses.
Normal diplomas carrying with them
the degree B. Pd. are life certificates to
teach in the public schools of Missouri.
The degree A. B. conferred upon those
who complete the collegiate course.
Four teachers of Music: Voice Culture,
Piano, Violin, Band and Orchestra
Practice. Elocution, Athletics, Draw-
ing and Art.
Board $9.50 a month. Tuition $3.00
the year to Missouri students. All
others pay $13.00 a year. Catalog free.
B. F. ALLEN, A. M.‘. LL. D.
President
MOREHOUSE COLLEGE
(Formerly Atlanta Baptist College)
ATLANTA, GA.
College, Academy, Divinity School
An institution famous within recent years
for its emphasis on all sides of manly develop-
ment—the only institution in the far South
devoted solely to the education of Negro
young men.
Graduates given high ranking by greatest
northern universities. Debating, Y. M. C. A.,
athletics, all live features.
For information address
JOHN HOPE, President.
ST. MARY’S SCHOOL
An Episcopal boarding and day school for
girls, under the direction of the Sisters of St.
Mary. Address.
THE SISTER-IN-CHARGE
611 N. 43d St.	W. Philadelphia, Pa.
FISK UNIVERSITY
NASHVILLE, TENN.
Founded 1866	C. W. Morrow, Dean
Thorough Literary, Scientific, Educational
and Social Science Courses. Pioneer in
Negro music. Special study in Negro history.
Ideal and sanitary buildings and grounds.
Well-equipped Science building.
Christian home life.
High standards of independent manhood
and womanhood.
Mention Thk Crisis
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
161
1875 BinU Agricultural nnb fHrrljantral (CoUrge far Negroes 1914
Normal, Alabama
A combination hard to beat. A thorough English Education combined zvith a Trade.
WHAT TRADE WOULD YOU LIKE TO TAKE T
Trades for Boys, 12 Trades for Girls, 7 Trades for both sexes, 2
STATE AND UNITED STATES APPROPRIATIONS
Property consists of 182 acres of land, 20 buildings for all purposes, live stock and general
equipment valued at $160,500.
SUMMARY OF OUR GRADUATES-1875-1914
Department of	Academics .......................................................................... 1,020
Department of	Agriculture ........................................................................... 88
Department of	Domestic Economy...................................................................... 533
Department of	Mechanic Arts ........................................................................ 276
Total .............................................................................................. 1.917
WHAT THEY ARE DOING
Principals of district	schools.................... 156
Teachers in rural schools......................... 263
Principals of secondary or	high schools............ 12
Teachers in grammar	and	high schools.......... 75
Doctors ........................................... 30
Lawyers ............................................ 5
Dentists ........................................... 5
Pharmacists ........................................ 3
Druggists ......................................... 10
Working at Trades ................................ 246
Banket s ........................................... 3
United States Government Service
Jc-ancs leathers ..................
Directors of book establishments ..
Editors and Journalists............
Bookkeepers .......................
United States Farm Demonstrators
•Undertakers and Emhalmers.........
Contractors and Builders ..........
United States Bureau of Education
Farmers ...........................
Housekeepers ......................
WHAT ARE YOU PREPARING TO DO?
25
7
2
8
15
1
5
8
1
326
480
DEPARTMENTS
Primary. Grammar. High School. College, Mechanic Arts, Agricultural Science, Home Economics, Commercial
Arts, Music and Nurse Training. Catalog free.
WALTER S. BUCHANAN. President.
HOWARD UNIVERSITY
STEPHEN M. NEWMAN, A. M., D. D., President.
College of Arts and Sciences	Commercial College
A. B. and B.S. Courses	Stenography, Typewriting, Economics, Etc.
Teachers College	Library School
A. B. and B. S. in Pedagogy Courses	
School of Manual Arts and Applied	PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS
Sciences	
Courses in Engineering	Domestic Arts	School of Theology
Domestic Science	Manual Arts	School of Medicine
Conservatory of Music	College of Medicine College of Dentistry
Academy	College of Pharmacy
Three Preparatory Courses (Classical, Scientific, Normal)	School of Law
ALL COURSES BEGIN SEPTEMBER 30, 1914.
For Catalog, Address: HOWARD UNIVERSITY, Washington, D.C.
Mention The Crisis
162
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
STOKER COLLEGE
Founded in 1867
Normal, College Preparatory, Music and
Manual Training Courses offered. Co-edu-
cational. High scholastic ideals. Situated in
historic John Brown Land. Magnificent loca-
tion. Fine library, twelve buildings, good
equipment, thoroughly trained faculty, modern
laboratories, expenses small. A place for the
earnest, poor young man or woman. No
drones wanted.
Write to Pres. HENRY T. McDONALD,
Harpers Ferry, W. Va.
DOWNINGTOWN INDUSTRIAL
and AGRICULTURAL SCHOOL
DOWNINGTOWN, PA.
Tenth Session begins September 16, 1914
COURSES : Literary ; Trades; Agricul-
ture and Practical Farming; Domestic
Science; Art, etc. For information write
Wm. A. Creditt, Pres., 628 South 19th
St., Philadelphia, Pa. B. C. Burnett,
Sec’y. Industrial School, Downingtown,
Pa.
Georgia State Industrial College
Graduated in June 51 members: 2 from Col-
lege Department, 15 from Normal Depart-
ment and 34 from Industrial Department.
Opens October 1st.
R. R. WRIGHT, President, Savannah, Ga.
OF INTEREST TO VOCAL STUDENTS
TONE-PLACING AND
VOICE- DEVELOPMENT
Points explained, viz.: Breath in
Singing, Trying the Voice, the
Soprano, the Mezzo-Soprano, the
Contralto, Tenor Leggiero or High
Tenor, the Baritone, the Bass,
Parts of the Vocal Apparatus, the
Mouth, the Tongue, Position wher
Practising, Position when Singing
How to Practice, Good Rules foi
Singing.
Comment from the world-renowned conductor o
the Paulist Choir of Chicago, 111., whose choir ha
just received the first prize awarded at the Singin
Contest held in Paris, on May 25, 1912:
“Dear Mr. Tinsley:
“I take great pleasure in commending your v?r
useful and succinctly written book on ‘Tone-Placm
and Voice-Development.’ Your own appreciation <
the psychology of singing and the fundamental pm
ciples of the art you have cleverly reduced to
simple system.	Cordially yours,
“Father WILLIAM J. FINN. C. S: P.,
Director Paulist Choristers of Chicago.
From “Musical Courier,’’ N. Y.: “A very practic
little book is ‘Tone-Placing and Voice-Development
by Pedro T. Tinsley. It contains some very excellei
material and vocal exercises, and should be in th
hands of all vocal students.”
From “Music News,” Chicago, 111.: “According!
his ‘Practical Method of Singing’ is a most concis
and practical little manual, containing many valuabl-
vocal exercises. It cannot fail to be helpful to al
ambitious vocal students.”
HELPED HIM GREATLY
“Since I practised your exercises of ‘Tone-Placing
and Voice-Development’ my voice is more resonant
than it has been for years. It seems to me that I
am getting a new voice.” Prof. John T. Layton,
Director Coleridge-Taylor Musical Society, 1722 10th
St., N. W.t Washington, D. C.
PRICE $1.00
Address the publisher: Pedro T. Tinsley, 6448 Drexel
Ave., Chicago, 111.; o.r Clayton F. Summy, 64 E. Van
Buren St., or Lyon & Healy, Adams and Wabash
Ave., Chicago, 111.
AGENTS WANTED
Others Receive $15 to $65 Weekly!
Why Not You?
Write immediately for full particulars, sample, picture, lit-
erature, etc. Experience unnecessary.
Enclose 10 cents to cover cost.
P. O. Box 2. Edmonton, Alberta. Canada
ANNOUNCEMENT
We desire intelligent persons to act as our local
distributors in communities where we are not already
represented. Would be pleased to hear from students
and. teachers during vacation, or any reliable person
able to furnish best references. Salary $9 a week.
SOUTHERN DISTRIBUTORS COMPANY
Odd Fellows Auditorium	Atlanta, Ga.
(Trad* Mark)
ANY SPARE TIME?
WHY NOT TURN IT INTO MONEY?
Our agents -are making $10.00 per day and more, selling
our new Negro picture, “A Joyful Welcome Into
Heaven," the finest picture ever produced with the
Negro as a subject. Pleasant agreeable work. Sells
at sight 1 Write today for particulars, or send 15 cents
stamps or coin for 50 cent sample and agent’s terms.
Money back if not satisfied at first glance I
The Douglas Specialties Co.
Department K
3548 Vernon Avenue, n Chicago, III.
Mention Thb Ceisii
THE CRISIS
Vol. 8—No. 4	AUGUST, 1914	Whole No. 46
MUSIC AND ART
(p OLERIDGE-TAYLOR’S “Kubla Khan”
was lately presented at the first con-
cert of the New Gainsborough Orchestral
Society, Nottingham, England. The London
Musical Times states that the conductor, Mr.
A. Henderson, placed the audience under a
decided obligation to both choir and orches-
tra for the introduction of so interesting a
work.
The fourth annual Festival for com-
peting choirs was held May 1 and 2 at Glas-
gow, Scotland. The tests selected were the
three choruses, “Summer is Gone” and
“Death in the Sierras” for mixed voices, and
“Fall on Me Like Silent Dew” for female
voices, and the solo for tenor, “Onaway,
Awake, Beloved.”
Q At the Commencement recital given at
Wells College, Aurora, N. Y., on June 8,
Miss Kitty Cheatam, the noted American
singer, devoted one part of her program to
a brief talk of the origin and development
of old Negro folk songs, a field in which
she has won high recognition.
^ An Indian opera, “The Sun Dance,” a
representation of America’s aboriginal life,
was recently produced by the Brigham
Young University Opera Company at the
Salt Lake City theatre. The libretto is by
Zitkala Sa (Mrs. R. T. Bonum), a highly
educated Sioux woman, and the music by
William F. Hanson, an instructor in the
Unita State Academy at Vernal. During
the evening -of the presentation, the customs
and legends incorporated in the opera were
explained by Zitkala Sa.
<3 The commencement exercises of the In-
stitute of Musical Art in the City of New
York, of which Mr, Frank Damrosch is di-
rector, were held in Aeolian Hall on June 1.
Mr. Alfred J. Thomas, the only colored
member of the graduating class, was former-
ly a leader in the United States Tenth
Cavalry Band.
C| A May Musical Festival was held by
the Coleridge-Taylor Club of the Raymond
Social Settlement, J. A. Mundy, conductor,
in Orchestra Hall, Chicago, 111., on May 17.
The club was assisted by Mrs. Willa Sloan,
soprano; Mr. W. A. Hahn, baritone; Mr.
Carroll K. Dickerson, violinist, and Mr.
Walter Gossette, organist. Mr. N. Clark
Smith was assistant conductor. The first
part of the program consisted mainly of
compositions by colored musicians. Two
choral numbers by Mr. Mundy, Ethiopia”
and “Sons of Freedom” are deserving of
special mention. Mrs. Sloan sang selections
by Cadman, Campbell-Tipton, and Puccini.
Of the concert the Chicago Tribune says:
“The chorus sang finely for its regular con-
ductor, who is unusually gifted. He has a
fine sense of dramatic values and has estab-
lished an excellent ensemble. . . . Several
of the individual voices were attractive, and
that of Mrs. Willa Sloan, a warm and bril-
liant soprano, possessed rare beauty of
quality.”
C} At Galloway Hall, Wilberforce, 0., a
Carnival of Folk Dances was given on May
27 by the pupils of the Physical Culture de-
partment of Wilberforce University, under
164
THE CRISIS
the direction of Miss Hallie Q. Brown, in-
structor of English and Physical Culture.
Q On June 3, Miss Brown gave an address
on Negro Folk Lore and Folk Song at the
commencement exercises of the Scribner
High School at People’s College, New Al-
bany, Ind.
<J Mrs. Alice Moore Dunbar gave an in-
teresting and instructive lecture on “The In-
fluence the Afro-American has on the Liter-
ature of This Country,” at the A. M. E.
Zion Church, Pittsburg, Pa.
Q During the month of June, Mr. Rich-
ard B. Harrison, elocutionist, has been heard
in a number' of recitals in Pittsburg, Pa.
<1 A piano recital was given on May 28
at True Reformer’s Hall, Washington, D.
C., by Mr. Henry Lee Grant of the faculty
of the Washington Conservatory of Music,
assisted by Dr. C. Sumner Wormley, bari-
tone, and the L’Allegro Glee Club, Mr. Er-
nest Amos, director. Mr. Grant opened his
program with the Handel “Fugue in E
Minor” and disclosed a beautiful and sym-
pathetic touch in the Chopin group and in
other pieces ranging from Beethoven to
Moszkowski.
Q The graduating exercises of the Wash-
ington Conservatory of Music were held on
June 2 at Washington, D. C. Diplomas in
the teachers course were awarded to Masses
Mamie Hope, Celestine Lott, and Pearl
Christmas.
While having his violin, a genuine
Steiner, repaired at the Badgett violin re-
pair shop on Peachtree St., Atlanta, Ga.,
Mr. Joseph Douglass, violinist, now touring
in the South, attracted the tenants of the
building by his beautiful playing, and soon
gathered an admiring audience. The At-
lanta Journal, referring to the incident, de-
clares that if Mr. Douglass returns for a
concert later in the summer, those who
heard him will not fail to attend.
C[ Among interesting pupils’ recitals giv-
en by private teachers during the month of
June were that of Miss Georgine Glover,
pianist, at Court Hall, Boston, Mass., on
June 26; and a piano pupils’ recital by Mrs.
Helen Young-Dammond, at Philadelphia,
Penn., on June 5. Miss Glover was a pri-
vate pupil of the late Petersilea of Boston.
Mrs. Dammond is a graduate of the musical
department of the University of Pennsyl-
vania.
<1 A festival of Negro Folk Song was
given on May 26 at the Fair Park Coliseum,
Dallas, Texas, by the Dallas Colored High
School. The chorus, which numbered three
hundred sang to a large audience of both
races. Mme. Azalia Hackley conducted the
choruses and sang a group of small songs
of the lighter character by colored musi-
cians. Just before the close of the program,
remarks were made by W. H. Atwell, former
United States District Attorney. Laying
stress upon the fact that the Negro race was
achieving successes, Mr. Atwell closed by
calling it “a great race and one destined to
be greater^”
Carl R. Diton, pianist, won a prize of
$100 in a recent Chicago contest for the
most appropriate setting for the words of
“I Feel Thy Spirit.” Mr. Diton and Mrs.
Effie J. West were married on June 8 in
Augusta, Ga., where they have both been
teaching at Paine College. Mr. Diton is
now located in Atlanta, Ga.
<1 The annual festival of the Georgia
Music Festival Association was held in At-
lanta on July 8, 9 and 10. The first night
was “All Women’s Night,” and Bemberg’s
cantata, “The Death of Joan of Arc” was
rendered. Sylvia Ward Olden, of New Or-
leans, took the leading role. On the second
night the Fisk Jubilee Singers, under the
direction of Prof. J. W. Work, rendered the
program. On the third night Mme. Anita
Patti Brown, soprano, gave a concert, as-
sisted by a chorus of one hundred voices,
under the direction of Prof. Carl Diton.
Mme. Anita Patti Brown, soprano;
Mr. W. Henry Hackney, tenor; Mr. Ernest
R. Amos, baritone, and Mr. R. Nathaniel
Dett, composer and pianist, gave a concert
of the works of Negro composers on June 3,
at Orchestral Hall, in Chicago.
EDUCATION
'TPHE following are graduates of 1914,
whose names did not reach us in time
for publication in the Educational Number:
Ralph H. Young received a degree of Doc-
tor of Medicine, and James L. Wilson a
Bachelor of Arts degree from Columbia Uni-
versity. Drue King received a degree of
Doctor of Medicine from Tufts College
Medical School. Walter S. Madison received
a Bachelor’s degree in Mechanical Engineer-
ing from the Iowa State College; there were
four other graduates. Among the colored
colleges omitted, E. E. Franklin and U. G.
Benson led the college class of nineteen
graduated from Biddle University. G. W.
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
165
Jordan and J. D. Merida ranked highest in
the class of fifteen receiving Bachelor’s de-
grees from Wiley University. Mrs. Alberta
M.	Diggs received a Master’s degree from
Selma University. M. C. Carmichael and
Wilhehnina Tanner led the college class of
five graduating from Samuel Houston Col-
lege. A. S. Phillips and Naomi R. Hunt
ranked highest in the college department of
Virginia Theological Seminary and College.
Through a mistake, the Dean sent in the
name of L. H. Newman as graduating with
second honor from Howard University.
Miss Grace Coleman received second honor
graduating, magna cum laude.
Altogether we have received names of 275
graduates from colored schools receiving
Bachelor’s degrees and three receiving Mas-
ter’s degrees.
Robert Hardon, a colored boy, graduated
from the East Saginaw (Mich.) High School
with highest honors in a class of one hun-
dred white boys.
^ Nineteen colored students were gradu-
ated from the two high schools of Indianap-
olis, Ind., which is an increase over former
years. There are in the two high schools
two hundred and two colored students, and
there are nine at the Technical Institute.
Butler College, in the same place, has four
colored students, and there are a large num-
ber of students who have finished from the
high school and are studying at colleges
away from home. Forty-three were gradu-
ated from one grammar school and large
numbers from the other graded schools.
Many colored students have made unusual
records.
<J Beatrice B. Mills, a colored girl, re-
ceived a gold medal from School No. 69 in
New York City. She led a class of thirty-
eight white competitors in shorthand, French
and music.
Q Twenty colored and Indian students
from Hampton Institute, camping in the
mountains and' on the sea shores of New
England, are presenting pageants during the
summer. They are giving the folk-songs and
folk-lore of both races and the tribal dances
and ceremonial chants of the Indians.
C| Tuskegee Institute contributed the com-
mencement Sunday collection, which amount-
ed to about fifty dollars, to Atlanta Univer-
sity.
Q Dr. Edward B. Terry, the colored
Medical Inspector of Schools in Atlantic
City, N. J., who was indefinitely suspended
by the Board of Education, lias been rein-
stated by Assistant Commissioner Betts. He
will receive full salary for the time he has
been under suspension.
Q The late Mrs. William M. Elliot, of
Baltimore, has bequeathed $150,000 for the
creation of a corporation to educate Negroes
in the State of Maryland.
<1 The National Kindergarten Association
of New York has opened an experimen-
tal kindergarten in Richmond, Va., for col-
ored children.
CJ The Committee on Appropriations in
the House of Representatives has given
Howard University $99,000 of the $101,000
asked for. The committee approved an ap-
propriation of $66,640 for Freedmen’s Hos-
pital, in Washington, which is an increase
of $5,600 over last year’s appropriation.
<J The Rising Sons and Daughters of
Protection, a colored fraternal organization,
contributed $300 to Tuggle Institute in Bir-
mingham, Ala., at its annual meeting held
in Talladega recently.
Julius Rosenwald, the Chicago philan-
thropist, has agreed to duplicate the amount
of money raised in any southern community
for colored rural schools.
CJ A report presented before the General
Assembly of the Presbyterian Church in
Chicago showed that the Freedman’s Boaid
expended $247,000 last year. This is an in-
crease of $34,000 over the preceding year.
CJ The colored graduates of the Univer-
sity of Iowa in Iowa City have formed an
organization to be known as the Iowa col-
ored alumni. The students of the Univer-
sity have organized the Delta Chapter of
the Kappa Alpha Nu, a Negro college men’s
fraternity, composed of eleven students and
three alumni.
The colored industrial school, made
possible by th,e gift of Mrs. Sallie J. McCall,
is located in Cincinnati, O., with W. L.
Ricks as principal.
Q Rufus Jackson, a colored graduate of
the East Des Moines (la.) High School, has
been awarded a scholarship to the State Col-
lege at Ames.
CJ Plans were discussed at a meeting in
Philadelphia recently for the federation of
all Negro secondary and industrial schools,
with a general office in New York. One of
the chief purposes of this consolidation
would be the reduction of expenses in rais-
ing funds.
Q The late Mrs. Maria Van Antwerp
166
THE CRISIS
Jesup of New York City bequeathed $50,000
each to Tuskegee and Hampton Institutes.
All of the schools under the Freed men’s
Aid Society will be called colleges instead of
universities, except Clark University in At-
lanta. The name of this school will remain
unchanged and the curriculum will be im-
proved.
SOCIAL UPLIFT
npHE second Universal Race Congress will
meet in Paris in 1915.
<]J The colored children of Greensboro, N.
0., have, themselves, raised $250 for a play-
ground by minding babies, washing dishes,
raising chickens and flowers, etc. There is
still need for $250.
The Afro-American Ledger of Baltimore,
Md., held a five-mile race on May 23. S. A.
Jones was the winner.
The Hotel Worthy in Springfield, Mass.,
has taken back its entire force of colored
waiters, whose places were recently given to
white men by a new management.
<J The District of Columbia has been order-
ed by the House of Representatives to pay
$41,209.73 to Freedmen’s Hospital as one-
half the cost of maintenance of indigent pa-
tients treated from 1906 to 1913.
<J Courtland Lewis, a colored postal clerk
employed in the post office in Cincinnati,
0., made 100 per cent, in a case examination.
The examination was on the distribution of
firm mail, represented by 970 cards. Every
card was thrown correctly with a speed of
64.47 cards per minute.
<3 Frank Jenkins, a colored boy of Jamaica,
L. I., broke .all former records inv the mile
and half-mile race in the annual high
schools’ track and field championship meet
on the Public School Athletic Field in
Brooklyn, N. Y.
C| The tablet of the late Harriet Tubman
Davis at Auburn, N. Y., was unveiled on
June 12. The tablet was the gift of the
Cayuga County Historical Society, a white
organization. Prominent white and colored
men and women participated in the pro-
gram.
June 6 was clean-up day for colored peo-
ple in Alabama.
. <J There are several towns in the State of
Oklahoma inhabited and governed entirely
by colored people. Lima, situated in the
center of Seminole County, is one of the
newest of these and has the advantage of a
great many natural resources. The one
school, a two-story brick' building, with its
corp of five teachers, is a good one but in-
adequate, because of the growth of the com-
munity. Many of the farmers take the farm
journals and use modern machinery in their
work. The local stores, mills and farms fur-
nish much of the produce needed in the town,
fj At this year’s commencement of the West
Virginia Colored Institute in Institute, W.
Va., a bronze tablet in memory of Prof. J.
McHenry Jones, who was President of the
Institute for eleven years, was unveiled.
•1 Albert Randree, a colored cook on the
Southern Pacific Railway, received a reward
of $500 for felling a bandit who held up a
train out of San Francisco.
<J The new $100,000 colored Y. M. C. A. in
Kansas City, Mo., has been dedicated. -Mr.
Rosenwald gave $25,000, the colored people
raised $25,000, and the white people contri-
buted $50,000.
C] Titustown, a suburb of Norfolk, Va., is
a Negro settlement in which every man owns
his own home. The county gave a good
school and the Negroes furnished their
church. There is no saloon in the place, and
there never has been an arrest made there.
^ Negroes, under the direction of William
Benson, of the Kowaliga (Ala.) Community,
have built a railroad from Kowaliga to
Alexander, a distance of fifteen miles.
• €3 Timothy Williams, a colored laborer on
the Panama Canal railroad, saved Joseph
Lewis, a French co-laborer, from drowning
at the risk of his own life. The governor
of the Panama Canal Zone presented to the
rescuer a medal awarded by the government.
<3 Mary Carter Langston, a colored woman,
started a library in St. Augustine, Fla.,
about two years ago for the colored children
who had access to none. This library was
made a kind of a settlement house with
games, meetings, music, etc. The work has
grown and recently a domestic science class
has been opened for the girls and a manual
training class for the boys.
E.	Smith, a colored student of Colorado
College, won the 440-yard and 220-yard
dashes in the meet between Colorado College
and Denver University.
<3 W. H. Daly, a colored business man of
Baltimore, Md., will build a $75,000 vaude-
ville and moving picture theatre in that city
for colored patrons.
Q The three colored soldiers of the Tenth
United States Cavalry who took examina-
tions at Fort Huachuca, Arizona, in May
for the office of Captain of United States
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
167
Volunteers, passed with averages above 80
per cent. The examinations extended over
a period of thirteen days.
The Washington (D. C.) Bee published
an anniversary number of sixteen pages on
June 27. This number celebrated the thirty-
fourth anniversary of the Bee and contained
accounts of colored schools and philan-
thropic institutions, sketches of successful
colored men, etc.
^ Jack Johnson easily maintained his title
to the championship of the world in a fight
at Paris with Frank Moran, the “white
hope” from Pittsburg. Thirty-five thousand
people witnessed the fight, which was a very
tame one, Moran not having the slightest
chance.
MEETINGS
'TVHE President of the National Federa-
tion of Colored Women’s Clubs has
sent out notices to all the local and state
federations for the four days’ meeting at
Wilberforce, from August 4 to 6. Many
noted men and women will speak at this
meeting.
The New Jersey League of Republican
Organizations of colored voters held its an-
nual convention in Atlantic City, June 26
and 27.
The State Federation of Women’s Clubs
of South Carolina met at Sumter on June 17.
Several hundred people of Washington,
D.	C., attended a memorial service on May
31, held at Howard Theatre for colored
soldiers.
<3 The fiftieth anniversary of the enlistment
of Negroes in the United States Army from
the State of Pennsylvania was celebrated in
Philadelphia during the week of June 26.
<3 The Young Peoples’ Congress was held
under the auspices of the A. M. E. Church
in Atlanta, July 8.-12.
<3 The National Negro Business League will
meet in Muskogee, Okla., in August.
Institutes for colored teachers are being
held ijr thirty-three places in Alabama dur-
ing the summer.
€3 The Empire State Federation of Colored
Women’s Clubs met at Concord Baptist
Church in Brooklyn, N. Y., July 1, 2 and 3.
C3 The - Grand Lodge of the Knights of
Pythias of Virginia met in Richmond in
June.
<3 About fifty publications were represented
at the annual meeting of the Colored News-
paper Men’s Association of Texas in Dallas.
Q State associations of colored women’s
clubs are planning for the national meeting
on August 2 in Chjcago.
ECONOMICS
npHROUGH the efforts of H. P. Ewing,
a successful colored farmer, the Kaw
Valley Truck Farm Company has been in-
corporated under the laws of Kansas. One
hundred and five acres just west of Armour-
dale, Kansas, have been leased. The capital
stock of $5,000 is divided into 500 shares.
<3 Colored people in Philadelphia have
fourteen building and loan associations, fif-
teen insurance companies, two hospitals, a
bank doing over $1,000,000 worth of busi-
ness, and own $10,000,000 worth of real
estate.
C| It is said that young colored men between
twenty and thirty years of age have acquired
fifty houses in Bennetsville, N. C., during
the past five years.
Q Up to June 30, the last day for the pay-
ment of income tax, $10,000,000 had been
paid into the office of Charles W. Anderson,
the colored Internal Revenue Collector. Col-
lector Anderson has the richest district in
New York in which 15,000 people are esti-
mated to have an income of more than $1,-
000,000,000. Five million dollars will prob-
ably be paid in before the extra time has
expired.
<3 The Afro-American Realty and Amuse-
ment Company of St. Louis has purchased
a corner lot about 130 feet square for a
$150,000 building which will contain a thea-
tre, club rooms, and offices.
Q The colored people of Charlotte, N. C.,
who form about one-half of the population
of the city, own one-seventh of the city land
in- 1,225 city lots. There are 762 colored
men listed for poll tax between the ages of
twenty-one and fifty years.
GHETTO
A REPORT by Edith Elmer Wood in the
Southern Workman tells that in 1906
one-seventh of the Negro population of
Washington lived in alleys. In 1912 condi-
tions had been greatly improved, partly be-
cause of new sanitary laws, and largely be-
cause the inhabitants of the alleys desired
better homes. But still the death rate on the
streets of Washington was 17.32 per thou-
sand of population, and in the alleys it was
28.52. The Alley Elimination Bill is now
before the Senate and House. This bill pro-
168
THE CRISIS
vides that ten years after its passage there
shall be no more inhabited alleys in Wash-
ington.
<J About eight hundred colored people gath-
ered in a mass meeting in Louisville, Ky., on
July 5,. to protest against the segregation
ordinance recently passed in that city. Dr.
Joel E. Spingarn, President of the Board of
Directors of the National Association for
the Advancement of Colored People, and
Prof. William Pickens of Talladega College,
spoke. Funds were pledged for a legal fight,
q Prof. Carl J. Murphy, an instructor of
German in Howard University, was refused
accomodation in the main dining room of
the ship Koenigen Luise of the North Ger-
man Lloyd Steamship Company. He was
told that he must take his meals in the
smoking room. He returned the ticket which
he had purchased and secured passage on
another steamer.
q A crowd of two hundred white men
wrecked a moving picture house for colored
people in Jackson, Miss. They ran the ticket
seller out of the office, cut the wires, dis-
connected the moving picture apparatus and
locked the doors.
q The management of the Y. M. C. A. in
Detroit, Mich., has decided that colored
members will no longer be admitted. The
Detroit branch of the National Association
for the Advancement of Colored People is
protesting.
q When George Baxter, a colored man
working in a mine in Pottsville, Pa., was
seriously injured by an explosion, the local
hospital refused to take him in on account of
color. His employer obtained a mandamus
which would have eventually admitted the
wounded man to the hospital, but he died
while the argument was going on. The
charter of the hospital prohibits discrimina-
tion.
q Several of the white nurses resigned
from the Charity Hospital in New Orleans
when colored nurses were admitted. Colored
nurses were admitted because the supply of
white nurses was not large enough,
q Plans for sleeping tents in a park for
poor mothers and their children have been
made by the Mothers' Congress in St. Louis,
Mo. Colored women raised $127 which they
wished to contribute to the care of colored
women and children, but the President of
the Mothers’ Congress, a white Woman, re-
ported that Park Commissioner Davis did
not approve of provisions for colored chil-
dren as was planned at first.
CRIME
'T'HE following colored men have been
lynched since the last report:
William Robinson, accused of killing a
white man, was lynched near Navasoto, Tex.
Samuel Bains was shot by a sheriff in a
posse which hunted him down near Warrior,
Ala.; he was wanted for robbery and lar-
cency. John Smith, accused of holding up
and robbing a pay-car of the Gilchrist Ford-
ney Company near Stearns, La., was lynched
at Louisville, Miss.
q A young colored woman, Miss Mary
Brooks, was shopping with her mother in
Nashville, Tenn., when some dispute con-
cerning change arose. The floor walker Bet-
tied the matter and then ordered them out.
When they did not move fast enough he as-
saulted them, knocking both of them down
and beating the mother while a clerk held
Miss Brooks.
q John Frazier, a partially deaf colored
man of Nashville, Tenn., is dead from a blow
on the head inflicted by a white officer. The
officer had arrested a man and Frazier start-
ed across the street to see what the trouble
was. He was ordered back but did not un-
derstand at first and when he did start back
the officer ran and struck him a fatal blow
across the head, allowing his prisoner to
escape.
q Charles M. Doran, a white man, was
stabbed by Edward Anderson, a colored
man, in self defense at St. Paul, Minn. An-
derson was on the car with a colored woman
whom Moran thought to be white. When
the two colored people got off the car Moran
and a party of friends got off also and in-
terferred, threatening to shoot the Negro
and crying, “lynch the nigger,” with the
above result.
q William Brion, a colored man of Coates-
ville, Pa., came near losing his life at the
hands of a mob for scolding some boys who
were throwing firecrackers into the street.
He waB knocked on the back of his head with
a glass bottle which made a deep cut. He
drew his knife and cut two men -in the
crowd. He was hurried off to jail,
q Fred Young killed James Hollis; both
are white men. Young mistook Hollis for a
colored man, John Farmer, for whom a
posse was hunting.
MISS HALLIE QUINN BROWN
A PUBLIC SPEAKER
rT'HE meeting of the National Federation
of Colored Women's Clubs, at Wilber-
force this month, makes them, in a sense, the
guests of Hallie Quinn Brown. This is as
it should be, for of all present forces
among colored women, she is perhaps the
strongest and most far-reaching.
Miss Brown was born at Pittsburg and
educated at Wilberforce. She has held po-
sitions at Allen University, Tuskegee, and
Wilberforce. She has been active in club
life, and has published some essays.
But it is chiefly as a lecturer and inters
preter of literature that Hallie Q. Brown is
known all over the country and in Europe.
In England she was a delegate to the Inter-
national Council of Women in 1899, and lec-
tured throughout the country, meeting many
of the most distinguished Englishmen. Later
she returned to England and raised $16,000
there for the beautiful new dormitory re-
cently erected by the university. In the
United States she has lectured in almost
every community of the country. Her inter-
pretations of literature, and particularly of
Negro authors, are always true and sympa-
thetic, and seldom fail to entertain audiences
of all sorts and conditions. Lady Henry
Somerset has referred to her “musical voice"
and the “charm of her graceful presence."
It is rumored that the National Confeder-
ation will confer the highest honor on Miss
Brown by making her National President in
succession to Mrs. Margaret Washington.
DR. EDWARD ALBERT CARTER
170
THE CRISIS
M. DIAGNE	M. GRATIEN CANDACE	M. RENE BOISNEUF
A BUSY PHYSICIAN
Tj'DWARD ALBERT CARTER was one
of twelve children and was born in Vir-
ginia in 1881. His father moved to Iowa in
1882 and became a coal miner. Edward at-
tended the public school and then the High
School of Oskaloosa, where for a time he
walked ten miles a day to his lessons. Dur-
ing the summers he worked as a miner and
went to school in winter, graduating from
the State University
of Iowa in 1903, and
the College of Medi-
cine in 1907. He was
a member of the
German society “Die
Germania,” the Uni-
versity Mandoline
Club, and was elect-
ed at the end of his
junior year to the
“Scimitar and Fez”
senior boys society.
After receiving the
degree of M. D. he
was employed as first
assistant to the local
surgeon for the Bux-
ton Mining Colony,
and assistant local
surgeon for the Con-
solidation Coal Com-
pany, and the Chi-
cago and Northwest-
ern Railway Com-
pany. He is still at
Buxton, Iowa, a town of nearly 5,000 inhabi-
tants (nearly all colored miners), and is now
local surgeon for the railroad and coal com-
pany with a white assistant under him.
THREE MEMBERS OF PARLIAMENT
' ■ ''HERE are to-day three colored members
of the French Chamber of Deputies,
and as Le Journal says: “Is not this evi-
dence of the good instruction which our
brothers in the colonies receive?” M. Gra-
tien Candace and M.
Rene Boisneuf are
deputies from the
Island of Guade-
loupe. Candace stu-
died in France, is a
professor of science,
and was attached to
the Ministry of
Works under Vivi-
ani. Boisneuf was
for many years May-
or of Pointe-a-Pitre,
Guadeloupe. M. Di-
agne, formerly Col-
lector of Customs, is
a deputy from Sene-
gal, West Africa.
Imagine a black
member of the Eng-
lish Parliament from
South Africa, or a
black Congressman
from Mississippi!
They do things bet-
ter in France.
MEN OF THE MONTH
171
• il
MISS CHARLOTTE SEARLES
A BRILLIANT WIFE
Ti/fRS. WATERLOO BULLOCK SNEL-
SON was born in Atlanta, Ga., and
married to the Rev. Floyd G. Snelson in
1890. She was a graduate of Atlanta Uni-
versity, a* teacher in the public schools, and
a club woman. In Georgia she organized
the first colored women’s club; in San Fran-
cisco she founded an orphans’ home; in New
England she edited a club paper, the North-
eastern, for two years; in the Bermudas she
met large numbers of English and American
visitors and the Bermuda Advocate said,
“This talented lady is unquestionably an ac-
quisition to the community, of pre-possess-
ing appearance and engaging personality.”
In fact, Mrs. Snelson was in many ways
the ideal wife for the itinerant Methodist
preadier: she lectured, sang and worked.
She even occupied her husband’s pulpit, and
she brought up a family of four children;
with all this work and her own restless ner-
vous energy she was personally charming,
full of humor, and one of the most beautiful
women in America.
A LEFT HANDED STRUGGLE
4 4T WOULD give my right hand to be able
-*■ to do that.” Would you ? And if you
did, how would you fight out the rest of your
life without it? And if, at the same time,
you were also deprived of your right foot,
would you consider life worth the struggle,
especially if entirely dependent upon your
own resources for support?
This is the way one woman proved that
success depends more upon brains than up-
on hands or feet:
In 1801 Charlotte Searles, a colored girl
of sixteen, of Galesburg, 111., lost both right
hand and right foot in an accident. “Poor
child, poor dear child, nothing for her to do
but study for a teacher,” said they all. But
the girl did not intend to have the plan of
her life shattered by a cruel fate. Sewing
she loved and sewing she was determined to
do.
Two days after the accident she spied a
partly hemmed handkerchief on the table
near her bed. Reaching for it she pinned
one corner to the quilt and one to her shoul-
der. Then and there the left hand come into
its own, beginning its work of more than
half a century. Dressmaking, hemstitching,
macliine work, all neatly done, bear witness
to its accomplishments.
THE AWAKENING.
By Otto Bohanan
A Misty star in a misty sky,
But never a sign of moon!
And the lone star pales to the lonely eye
Mid the heart’s lamenting croon.
A night of years and a night of tears!
Where the rain is sobbing low.
And the wild heart grieves mid the withered
leaves,
Dead dreams of long ago!
I
THE SUFFRAGE
the cost of No time is gained by
settling	settling a great question
things wrong	wrong. The disfranchise-
ment of the southern Ne-
gro is illegal and immoral. The result is
that it continues to be a live question in the
South. Every matter which brings up in the
slightest degree the question of voting opens
the whole argument. For instance, Annie
Riley Hale, who is “Opposed,” sends this
warning to the New Orleans Times-Demo-
crat:
“A mass meeting in Carnegie Hall, opened
and presided over by the Mayor, closed the
New York program for> what is henceforth
to be known as ‘Suffragette Day.9
“An incident fraught with special interest
to Southerners—and the immediate inspira-
tion of this letter—occurred in Riverside
Park, near Grant’s tomb, when Mrs. Inez
Milholland-Boissevain was speaking. A man
in the crowd asked her: ‘How are you go-
ing to give the vote to colored women 7’ She
promptly replied: ‘Why, certainly, we in-
tend to give the vote to colored women in
precisely the same way we shall give it to
all other women.’
“Will Mrs. Helen Gardener, Miss Jean Gor-
don, Ellen Glasgow et al, kindly sit up and
make a note of this? They and their suf-
fragette following in the South have been
hugging the fond illusion that white women
could obtain the ballot through a State-law
which would exclude the Negro women; but
happily not many Southern men are obsessed
with any such impracticable nonsense about
law making.”
A staff correspondent of the Macon Tele-
graph speaks of the instability of the pres-
ent disfranchisement laws of the South and
continues:
“There was no difference among the white
Democratic voters of Georgia as to white su-
premacy. All were in accord as to that. It
was a question of expediency. We had by
our white primary absolutely gotten rid of
the Negro vote. This was done by common
consent. Nothing done since has made it
more effective.
“As to the wisdom, under the circumstances,
of putting our white primary system into a
statute, there was honest difference of opin-
ion. For there was at the time quite a dis-
tinct movement to cut down representation
according to the vote in the Southern States.
Had this been pushed by Republicans as
threatened Georgia would not have been
amenable, because.she had not disfranchised
any voters. She accomplished her purpose
without any statute law, and hence her rep-
resentation could not be disturbed, as noth-
ing prevented the Negro voters from holding
their own primary—something we all knew
they would not do. Our primary nullified
no Federal statute.-
“The Republicans being in full#power by
sufferance did not disturb the disfranchise-
ment acts. But there is no stability to them
now. Read the debate between the lamented
Senator Bacon and Senator Root on the
Bristow amendment and discover the facts
in the case. There you see the situation.
• • •
“The foundation for enforcement of the
Fifteenth Amendment was laid when the
Bristow amendment was passed. It has put
the Democrats in a hole. We whipped our-
selves by introducing that Sutherland amend-
ment in the Senate. It brought the Bristow
amendment, and that gave Congress absolute
control of all registration and elections of a
national character. Senator Root maintained
that it conferred the power , on Congress to
declare the “disfran.chisement” acts void.
The debate between Senator Bacon and Sen-
ator Root will disclose the situation. • • •
“So there is no stability about our ‘dis-
franchisement’ acts. A few years may show
that it had been wiser to have stuck to our
OPINION
173
efficient white primary system. The day
may come when the name of Clarke of Ar-
kansas, who proved traitor to his party on
this Bristow amendment, will be hissed by
all southern people. Mr. Bryan insisted on
the change in the election of Senators, the
Bristow amendment and all, because, he said,
fit would be a stepping-stone to other re-
forms’ he had in contemplation, one of
which is the election of President by the
masses at large, regardless of States.”
The perpetual discussion of the Negro
problem in the South leaves little time for
anything else. The Washington Times
points out that “one of the penalties south-
ern States are paying for the privilege of
eliminating the Negro from their politics
springs from the largely inefficient constitu-
tions through which this elimination was
brought about. The States were so deter-
mined to destroy the Negro vote that they
forgot other considerations which now rise
up to plague them. The final decision of the
Supreme Court on these constitutional in-
hibitions of Negro voting is expected within
a week, and it will be a curious circumstance
if all the trouble and inconvenience they
represent shall go for naught.”
On the other hand, the papers of the
North continue to hammer at the southern
rotten boroughs. The Watertown (N. Y.)
Standard says:
“If representatives were fixed upon votes
cast the southern States would be less of a
factor in Washington. As it stands 1,000
southern voters have as much political
power as 10,000 citizens of the North who
vote. The Republican party should be more
concerned in preventing the South voting
Negroes it drives from the polls than in
lessening southern representation in national
conventions when the disproportion is due
not to the lack of Republican votes but to
the failure of government to protect the
rights of such voters. In the election of
1912, Georgia with 121,000 votes had 14
electors, while Maine with 129,000 had 6;
Alabama with 98,000 cast 12 votes in the
electoral college, and South Dakota with
116,000	votes,. 6.; Mississippi on 64,000 cast
10 and Rhode Island with 77,000, 5; South
Carolina cast 9 on 50,000 votes and Mon-
tana 4 on 78,000. The parallel runs through-
out the list of States, the South exercising
greater power for voting population than
other sections.”
The Boston Advertiser continues with this
strong utterance:.
“In other words, if the House of Repre-
sentatives were honestly and legally made
up in obedience to the Constitution, instead
of ten seats in the House, Alabama would
have five; instead of seven, Arkansas would
have five; instead of four, Florida would
have two; instead of eight, Louisiana would
have four; instead of six, Maryland would
have four; instead of eight, Mississippi would
have four; instead of sixteen, Missouri
would have thirteen; instead of ten, North
Carolina would have five; instead of seven,
South Carolina would have four; instead of
eighteen, Texas would have twelve. In other
words, there are at least more than thirty
members of the House of Representatives
who are sitting there illegally and in abso-
lute defiance of the constitution of the
United States.
“President Wilson knows this. He knows
that the Electoral College which chose him
as President was packed to that extent with
fraudulent votes. He accepted the fraudu-
lent votes complaisantly, without any
thought of protest. Although he is sworn
to obey and to defend the Constitution of
the United States, he winks at this violation,
every day of his term as President. That is
why we say that, in honoring his right and
honest and manly stand on the right of the
Negro to some consideration as a human
being and a citizen, he is utterly inconsis-
tent, in shutting his eyes so deliberately to
a great wrong, which he has already sworn
to abolish.”
m
SOCIAL EQUALITY
Like the question of voting,
S0ME	the deeper question as to
curious whether Negroes have the right
arguments £0 treated in all respects as
men according to their attainments, insists
upon discussing itself. Often the discussion
is brought on .by the deliberate attempt to
force people into an extreme position. For
instance, the Cleveland Gazette says:
“Wednesday’s Cleveland Leader an-
nounced in its news-columns that Mr. Os-
wald Garrison Yillard in his address at the
Chamber of Commerce, Tuesday, ‘advocated
a national law to prevent the inter-marriage
of whites and Negroes.’ Wednesday’s- Plain
Dealer in its news-columns stated that Mr.
Villard said: ‘Inter-marriage of whites and
174
THE CRISIS
Negroes is opposed by the National Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Colored
People. The Association, however, also
fights laws forbidding inter-marriage, hold-
ing the problem will solve itself, naturally.’
We do not believe that Mr. Villard advo-
cated any such ‘national law/ or that the
N.	A. A. C. P. ‘is opposed to the inter-mar-
riage of whites and Negroes/ as stated in
Wednesday’s Cleveland Leader and Plain
Dealer. However, we await a communica-
tion from Mr. Villard.”
Mr. Villard promptly replied:
“In reporting my recent address before
the Cleveland Chamber of Commerce you de-
clared that I advocated a national law to
prevent inter-marriage with whites and
Negroes. This is quite incorrect. I stated
that neither the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People nor myself
individually advocated or urged inter-mar-
riage, but that we were absolutely opposed
to any laws forbidding inter-marriage, since
we hold that this is a matter of individual
right to be controlled by public opinion. I
stated distinctly that if inter-marriage be-
tween blacks and whites was a wrong against
nature, nature herself would visit the sever-
est punishment upon those inter-marrying.”
Those all too eager folk who have based
their opposition to the decent and legal in-
termingling of white and colored races on
biological grounds have had small comfort
this month. Professor Franz Boas, of Co-
lumbia, went to California, the hot-bed of
anti-Japanese feeling, and said:
“All this feeling out here in California
against the inter-marriage of Americans and
Japanese as well as between whites and
other oriental peoples, is simply foolish sen-
timentality without the slightest, biological
foundation.
“Practically all the population of Europe
is the product of the most widely divergent
racial inter-mixtures. Humanity, funda-
mentally, is very nearly identical-the world
over, no matter what may be the color or
race.”
And then Professor Jacques Loeb, of the
Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research,
said at the recent Sagamore Conference:
“Biology has nothing to support the sup-
position that a pure white or a pure black
race is superior to a mulatto. On the con-
trary, Luther Burbank’s success lies in find-
ing breeds that possess superior powers of
resistance to climatic and other hardships.
Various other scientists, biologists and eu-
genicists have found that the offspring of
mixed races are the hardier offspring.
“While in some cases a mixed progeny is
worse, in others it is better than a pure
breed, and that scientific fact is enough to
show the absurdity of the belief in the South
that the inter-marriage of the white and
black races should be considered a felony.
‘America is itself the result of a mixture of
races.’ ”
The Portland Journal does not, of course,
like this sort of thing and when one of the
high school teachers of Seattle remarked at
a public meeting, “Perhaps all of us would
be handsomer if we had a dash of Negro
blood in us,” called this “open-mindedness”
startling and unfortunate. But the Port-
land Advocate, the colored paper, replies:
“Uncle Sam’s most ,handsome women are
the quadroons and octoroons of the South.
Even in the state of Washington can the
writer point out scores of families with a
dash of Negro blood in them, yea, not only
a dash, but a goodly proportion, and they
are not only exceedingly handsome, but far
above the average person in intelligence.
One of the members of the first legislature
of the state of Washington was the sou of
a man, who was jet black, and yet he passed
for white. One of the mayors of Tacoma
was a Negro in the middle west. Some of
the most prominent attorneys in Seattle
have heavy dashes of Negro blood in them.
In fact, in every city of any size in the state
of Washington are to be found one or more
persons with great dashes of Negro blood
in them, but who pass for white. So, if the
leading thinkers have condemned the idea of
the white man having a dash of Negro blood
in him, they have doile so without having
the facts to bear out their allegations. It is
a fact that the white men and women with a
dash of Negro blood in them are not only
the finest looking, but are really the most
intelligent.”
It takes the St. Luke’s Herald, another
colored paper, to do the plain talking:
“Why sneer at the North for wanting a
federal divorce • law ? Why sneer at the
North for not having a law against mixed
marriages'? Why sneer at the North about
miscegenation? Miscegenation is a product
of the South.
“Why doesn’t the southern press inveigh
against the miscegenation which existed
from Jamestown to Appomattox? Why
OPINION
175
doesn’t the southern press pour out its vials
of wrath upon the southern white men who
made the Negro a half white person?
“It seems that illicit cohabitation between
the races is to be winked at, and hardly
noticed; but, should there be an attempt to
marry then a crime is committed.”
We think, however, that for curious rea-
soning, the letter of George R. Miller, of
Wilmington, Delaware, in the Frietids’ In-
telligencer, is most striking. He objects to
the dropping of the sub-committee on work
among Negroes, and says:
“If, as I understand, the idea is to get
away from the thought of their being black
and on that account different from the white
race, then you are going, to increase the great
prejudice which already exists in the minds
of so many who will immediately conclude
that we wish to place them on a basis of
equality with the white race in every respect.
There are very few Friends, if any, who are
willing to admit them into their families on
a perfect social equality, which of course
would include intermarrying with them.”
The Philadelphia Press reminds us that a
“colored” person may ascend the throne of
England since the Countess Zia Torby is
engaged to Prince Alexander of Battenburg.
The Countess is a direct descendant of Han-
nibal, the coal-black body servant of Peter
the Great of Russia. Hannibal was a giant
in stature and was brought as a slave from
the Sudan. He became eventually a general
in the Russian army and was ennobled. His
grandson was Alexander Pushkin, the father
of Russian literature. The Countess Zia
Torby is the grand-daughter of Pushkin’s
youngest daughter who recently died and
was known as the Countess Natalie Meren-
berg.
Finally, the New York Times has this
note of the social equality “mystery” in
Birmingham, Alabama:
“A truly curious manifestation of racial
feeling has just occured in Birmingham,
Ala. At a theatre in that city there was
recently given a performance in the course
of which a white woman and a black man
both danced, not, indeed/ together, but in
such quick succession that in the opinion of
the spectators the two were brought into con-
trast or comparison. There was vehement
hissing of the “act,” and many people pro-
tested by quitting the place. On the follow-
ing morning The Birmingham News report-
ed the conduct of the audience with evident
approval, and immediately the police com-
pelled the elimination of the Negro dancer.
The next move was the withdrawal by the
manager of the theatre of all advertising
from The News, and now that paper makes
serious editorial comment on the various
phases of the episode.”
M
EDUCATION
The Columbia State says:
T1IE	“In the northern part of this
squirming country are a few, a very few,
south scholarly and earnest men, some
of them rich, who believe in the equality of
the races and who wish to see it established
in politics and in social life. They are mis-
taken men, they are sadly wrong, but it is
a fact that they are doing what they can to
promote this equality. It is with facts that
we are concerned.
“When one of them considers the condi-
tion of affairs in South Carolina, what does
he see?
“He sees about ten per cent, of the white
men illiterate and more than fifty per cent,
of them landless.
“Twenty thousand out of sixty-five thou-
sand land-owning farmers Negroes.
“Ability to read and write or ownership
of property taxed at $300 the qualifications
for suffrage.
“The Negroes sending larger numbers of
children to school than the whites are send-
ing.
“Acres of land owned by Negroes increas-
ing in number while acres owned by whites
decrease.
“Negroes qualifying for suffrage in rapid-
ly increasing numbers both by acquiring
education and acquiring lands.
“White men of South Carolina refusing
to enact compulsory school attendance laws,
so allowing illiteracy to breed illiteracy..
“Finally, he sees white men maintaining
a primary election system to which all white
men, regardless of education or property,
are admitted and which takes the place of
the general elections, so that the illiterate
and property less white man ceases to care
whether he is a qualified elector or not.
“Seeing these things in South Carolina
the northern fanatic, believing in race equal-
ity, aware that race problems do not settle
themselves in a generation, sits patiently
and waits, smiling that South Carolina,
thinking to perpetuate white ascendancy,
176
THE CRISIS
adopts and practices the only policy that
might, in time, endanger it.”
The New York Nation praises Mr. Rosen-
wald’s latest benefaction:
“The promise of Mr. Julius Rosenwald to
duplicate all gifts for Negro rural public
schools in the South is no less notable for its
wisdom than for its generosity. It is not
clear from the dispatches whether this re-
fers only to sums raised by colored people
or by others; in either event, it is munificent
enough. But Mr. Rosenwald is accustomed
to bestowing his benefactions both wisely
and generously, as witness what he has done
for the Y. M. C. A. movement among the
colored people. A number of impressive
and useful buildings have arisen because of
his aid and inspiration. So disheartening
has been the condition of the Negro rural
schools—in many counties they offer a mere
mockery of education—that the Slater and
General Education Boards, as well as the
Jeanes Fund which applies itself exclusively
to the colored rural public schools, have
been devoting themselves to the task of ob-
taining better supervision, better teachers,
and better conditions. If Mr. Rosenwald
will now duplicate every dollar raised by
the colored people to improve their cross-
roads schools, a splendid spur for their ac-
tivities has been provided.”
The state supervisor of rural schools in
Alabama is very frank about the way in
which school funds are divided in that state:
“Counting the three mill tax, the county
taxes, the State appropriations, the various
supplemental funds, appropriations to
higher institutions, and the appropriations
direct from the treasury to the rural schools,
together with the income of all private and
denominational schools, the total amount ex-
pended for education in Alabama for the
year 1913 reached the sum of approximately
six million dollars. Of this sum about one-
half million is contributed to Negro educa-
tion from the State treasury, and the other
half million is the income of private or de-
nominational Negro schools. This leaves
five million dollars for the white children of
Alabama.”
&
LAND
It is most startling to see how
the facts concerning land
ownership among Negroes
strike the South. Figures have recently been
THE MENACE
OF THRIFT
published concerning Alabama. Commerce
and Finance says:
“Negro farmers own or control 5,100,000
acres of land in the State of Alabama, or
350.000	more acres than they controlled in
1900. The colored farmers of the State have
under their control 3,563,000 acres of im-
proved land, and are farming 500,000 more
acres of improved land than they were culti-
vating in 1900. In ten years the number of
Negro farmers increased 17.3 per cent., and
now they own or control one-fourth of all
the farm property in Alabama, having an
aggregate value of $97,370,000, or 107.5 per
cent, more farm property than they con-
trolled at the beginning of the ten-year
period.”
The Public Ledger of Philadelphia has
this note:
“Colored people own 3,753 farms and
other real property in Missouri to the value
of $27,768,750. In South Carolina there are
25.000	more colored than white children en-
rolled in the public schools. All through the
South there is a marked movement toward
the division of great plantations into small
farms, the most of which Negroes acquire as
tenants or eventually as owners. There are
two phases in the forward movement of
the colored race that are of the utmost signi-
ficance—the one is its intense avidity for
education; the other, its reach for agricul-
tural independence.”
Most of the southern papers seem to re-
gard these facts of advance as a very des-
perate situation. Even the Omaha World-
Herald refers to it as a “new problem”
which is “looming.”
In the North the real estate Indicator of
New York City has the impudence to pub-
lish an article in which it says:
“During recent years a large section of
the better part of Harlem has been ruined
by their invasion. Actual figures can be
cited to prove that they have greatly depre-
ciated real estate values in Harlem and in
other parts of the city. This in itself, is an
indication that their presence is undesirable
among us, and that they should not only be
disfranchised, but also segregated in some
colony in the outskirts of the city, where
their transportation and other problems will
not inflict injustice and disgust on worthy
citizens.”
Meantime, the policy of race segregation
is going merrily round the world. For in-
OPINION
177
stance, in the Christian Express (Lovedale,
Africa), we find this:
“An advertisement in the East London
Dispatch, signed by the Town Clerk of East
London, intimates that in terms of Amended
Regulation No. 7 of the Municipality, the
Council has by resolution declared certain
streets to be principal streets in addition to
those already declared, and that Natives and
Asiatics shall not be allowed or authorized
to congregate, stand or walk upon any side-
walk or pavement in any such street. It is
surely to be regretted that the Council of a
town of such enlightenment as East London
has thus committed itself to the extended
operation of a regulation founded on the re-
actionary basis of racial ill-feeling, a town
that has in many ways testified to its respect
for Rhodes and its loyalty to his line of
policy, not to mention the name of Jesus
Christ and Christianity.”
HEALTH AND SANITATION
A census bulletin has been is-
THE - sued covering the mortality sta-
d\ing ( ) tistics in 1913. The Journal of
the American Medical Associa-
tioii is “startled” at the figures for Negro
mortality, but it is startled because their
mortality is compared with white mortality
and no comparison is afforded for compari-
son with the past.	If we make	a table with	
such comparisons	we find this:		
	1890	1900	1913
Memphis		...	29.9	28.6	28.2
Richmond			...	40.8	38.1	26.8
New Orleans . .. .	...	36.6	42.4	31.9
Baltimore		...	36.4	31.2	31.0
Nashville		...	23.9	32.8	24.0
Atlanta		....	33.5	31.8	25.2
Washington		...	32.7	29.0	24.4
The journal says that on account of sani-
tary reforms there will be a more reasonable
balance between the rates of the two races
in the future.
The Springfield Republican adds that
there will, “if in the meantime a stop is put
to the segregation movement in southern
cities. Poor blacks, as well as poor whites,
need to learn a deal more about sanitation.
But even in the North the Negro has little
choice of residence districts. He usually is
not allowed to live in the choice sections,,
even if -he has the money to buy or rent
property there. In the South he is herded
into the least desirable quarters, both by
pressure of poverty and the segregation
laws aforesaid. People living in narrow
streets or alleys, amid smoke and smell, in
antiquated and ruinous buildings, have not
the best possible chance to preserve their
health. Certainly they do not compete for
life on equal terms with their neighbors of
the dominant race.”
The Anti-Slavery Reporter says:
“With increasing insistence which gives
promise of debate on the Colonial Office
Vote, the scandal of our colonial medical
service has been pressed to the front. Mr.
Jowett and Mr. MacCallum Scott have been
drawing information from the Colonial Sec-
retary which, when pieced together later on,
will constitute a strong case for the admis-
sion to the Colonial medical service of a fair
proportion of colored medical men. It is
little short of a grave scandal that men other
than those of a pure European descent are
refused entrance to the service in certain of
our colonies. Very few will question the as-
sertion that many of our merchants and ad-
ministrators have left offspring, scattered all
over the Crown colonies; are these children,
who did not ask to be brought into their un-
fortunate position, to be denied an educa-
tion and opportunity of livelihood by the
very circles which have brought them into
existence? Again, as all taxation, iri the
ultimate resort, comes from the natives, are
their children, in possession of European
qualifications, to be denied the opportunity
of ministering under the Government to the
sick and afflicted of their own race? Let
those who hold such unjust theories beware
of an alert House of Commons, the members
of which are certainly not prepared to act
as passive onlookers whilst these deeds are
practised. I am one of those who greatly
admire the work of our colonial officials, but
I fear they do not realize the new spirit
which is springing up in the House, and in
all friendliness I would urge our men not to
make the fatal mistake of believing that
native questions are being watched only by
one or two of the more irresponsible mem-
bers—the ear of the House is becoming in-
creasingly sensitive to the plea of native
races for justice.”
COLORED OPINION
The criticism of the colored
press is still beipg kept up,
mostly in good spirit. The
Journal and Guide, Norfolk,
Virginia, thinks that the resolution passed
NOTES FROM
THE NEGRO
PRESS
178
THE CRISIS
by the National Association for the Ad-
vancement of Colored People at its Balti-
more meeting, on the Negro Press, was by
way of apology for The Crisis. This reso-
lution said:
“The National Association for the Ad-
vancement of Colored People recognizes the
value of the work which the Negro press has
been doing for years, and that against great
odds, for the upbuilding of the colored peo-
ple of this country and the development of
race consciousness. In those parts of the
country where the white press is in a con-
spiracy of silence regarding the wrongs suf-
fered by the colored people, the Negro press
has been the only agency to voice complaint
and appeal for redress of grievances. The
Association wishes for the Negro press an
increase in prosperity and influence for the
future and invites its co-operation in the
war which is now on.”
The Crisis is especially interested in find-
ing support for its stand in an unexpected
quarter. The New York Age says:
“Even our religious publications, which
should contain, for the most part, helpful
discussions by our wisest and best church-
men and laymen, of the matters of higher
light and leading in the life of the people,
are given over to personal mention and the
small goings and doings of bishops and
pastors.”
And it adds:
“There should be a concerted effort on the
part of colored editors to so educate the
colored reading public that it will desire
fuller discussion of the world’6 thought and
work and less of its personal, social and
scandalous tittle-tattle.”
Et tu Brute?
St. Luke’s Herald has this editorial on
race idealism:
“Our homes are filled with books which
deride and belittle us; faces of great white
men and women crowd each other on our
walls. Only books recording the achieve-
ments of other men and women are in our
children’s hands. Qur school walls are filled
with everybody’s great men and women, save
our own, and yet, we are surprised that the
Negro lacks race pride, race co-operation,
and race ideals.
“The greatest Negro school in the country
is Howard University, with nearly 1,500
students, representing 35 States and the Dis-
trict of Columbia. If race ideals are to be
taught in any school in. this country, one
would most assuredly expect to find it in
Howard University, Washington, D. C. Yet,
in this great Negro School, the walls bear
not one Negro face, despite the distinguished
alumni and alumnae which the university
has produced.”
The Nashville Globe rejoices over a signal
victory:
“The winning of the suit against the
Louisville & Nashville Railroad by the peo-
ple of Hopkinsville, Ivy., was a signal vic-
tory for the Negroes, not only of that city
and county, but of the whole South. The
fact that the best white people of that com-
munity were with the colored people proves
that the best white people of the South want
the colored people to be treated justly, and
when the colored people themselves show
that they know what is right and just, the
best white people are always found standing
by them in a demand for justice.
“Negroes are not asking that the laws be
repealed, but instead that they be enforced.
It is an outrage to compel women and men
to pay first-class fare and endure what most
of the railroads give them for their money.
The laws all say that equal accommodations
shall be provided for all passengers. The
St. Louis Globe Democrat thinks that it is
impractical to ask the railroad to provide
special coaches for colored people, but that
is not the trouble of the colored people.
They did not make the law, they are, how-
ever, made to obey the law, and since they
are made to obey the law they are asking
that all other parties to the contract do the
same thing. They are not asking for any
second-class fare, but for full value for
money they invest.”
The Louisville Nexos has an editorial on
slavery.
“In the turpentine camps of Florida are
employed by contract colored convicts, and
it is stated upon reliable authority that no
condition of servitude, savagery or serfdom
has ever equalled the state of abandonment
and hopelessness of these poor devils. They
are leased by the State to an association at
so much a head, and the association in turn
sells them at $400 or more a head per annum
to private contractors, who take them to the
various turpentine camps of the State. In
these infested swamps and marshes, with
little or no protection for their bodies and
under the supervision of mounted guards,
they are compelled to labor unceasingly day
and night.”
VOTES FOR WOMEN
IIIS fall the voters of six
states certainly, and pos-
sibly eight, will vote on
woman’s suffrage. In
North and South Dakota,
Montana, Nevada, Mis-
souri and Nebraska elections are sched-
uled and attempts are being made to in-
clude this question in the fall elections
of Oklahoma and Ohio. The Negro pop-
ulation of these eight states is 552,054.
Assuming that the black voters of Okla-
homa will be largely disfranchised it is,
nevertheless, probable that SO,000 Negro
voters will be asked to vote for or
against the extension of the right of
suffrage to women. How should they
vote? A colored woman writes us from
New Haven:
May I ask if through your columns you
will answer some questions regarding Wom-
an Suffrage and the colored woman? Our
white friends come and tell us that we can
do so much for ourselves*" when we get the
ballot. Please tell me how we are going to
do so much for ourselves? Will not the pro-
portionate vote be the same as now? Should
not the white women consider the betterment
of the colored people as well as the foreigner
who comes to our shores, because conditions
are better here than in his own country? I
attended a meeting a short time ago and the
speaker invited questions. She had spoken
of almost everything possible except the
problems that vitally concern the people ad-
dressed. I asked her why the women were
silent on the lynching of colored people in
the South and on the unjust marriage laws
and other laws discriminating against the
Negro. She replied: “We have to take up
the most imp jrtant subjects, we cannot
b.other with ev jrything under the sun and
there are so many other things more impor-
tant than lynching. As for marriage laws,
we have to have some laws regulating mar-
riage between races. For my part, I do not
believe in marriage between Americans and
Europeans.” Now, Mr. Editor, this woman
is a highly educated woman, but does not
that sound like shallow reasoning? Are not
Americans made up of all nations of
Europe ? Now what are we trying to do for
ourselves if that is the way that the women
who are working for votes for women feel
towards the problem of the colored woman?
Have we any right to believe that they will
work for our cause after they get the ballot,
if they do not feel willing to take up such
questions now? Has the past history of our
race anything. to give us such encourage-
ment?
Let us answer frankly, there is not
the slightest reason for supposing that
white American women under ordinary
circumstances are going to be any more
intelligent, liberal or humane toward the
black, the poor and unfortunate than
white men are. On the contrary, con-
sidering what the subjection of a race,
a class or a sex must mean, there will
undoubtedly manifest itself among
women voters at first more prejudice
and petty meanness toward Negroes
than we have now. It is the awful pen-
alty of injustice and oppression to
breed in the oppressed the desire to op-
press others. The southern white women
who form one of the most repressed and
enslaved groups of modern civilized
women will undoubtedly, at first, help
willingly and zealously to disfranchize
Negroes, cripple their schools and pub-
licly insult them.
Nevertheless, votes for women must
and ought to come and the Negroes
180
THE CRISIS
should help bring this to pass for these
reasons:
1.	Any extension of democracy in-
volves a discussion of the fundamentals
of democracy.
2.	If it is acknowledged to be unjust
to disfranchise a sex it cannot be denied
that it is absurd to disfranchise a color.
3.	If the North enfranchises women,
the proportion of unselfish intelligent
voters among Negroes will be increased,
and the proportion of Negro voters
whom white politicians have trained to
venality will be decreased.
4.	If when the North enfranchises
women the South refuses, or enfran-
chises only the whites, then the discrep-
ancy between North and South in the
votes cast will be even greater than now;
at present the southern white voter has
from five to seven times the power of the
northern voter. How long would the
nation endure an increase or even a
doubling of this power? It would not
take long before southern representa-
tives in Congress would be cut down or
colored women enfranchised.
5.	Granting that first tendencies
would make the woman voter as unfair
in race rights as the man, there would
be in the long run a better chance to ap-
peal to a group that knows the disad-
vantage and injustice of disfranchise-
ment by experience, than to one arro-
gant and careless with power. And in
all cases the broader the basis of democ-
racy the surer is the universal appeal
for justice to win ultimate hearing and
sympathy.
Therefore: Votes for Women.
S
“DON’T BE BITTER!”
S it not singular that so
many white folk in advis-
ing black folk—and the
ancient industry of ad-
vising blacks is booming
just now—are careful to
say, first and last: “Don't be bitter!"
Why is there this insistence on the ne-
cessity of a sweet and even temper as
an asset in life? Manifestly it is be-
cause most Americans who know or who
begin faintly to realize the difficulties,
complications and insults of a dark
man's life today cannot imagine them-
selves suffering such wrongs without re-
sorting to dynamite or suicide.
With the best will, therefore, they
hasten to say: “Don't be bitter—don't
mind—look on the bright side—and—
and—"—then they trail off helplessly
and look you rather miserably and
apologetically in the face.
Recently in Atlanta five hundred
colored college students met to consider
the student volunteer movement. They
had been invited, after several years'
hesitation, by Mr. John R. Mott, who
has been making a desperate attempt for
twenty-five years to avoid the “Negro
Problem" in his missionary enterprises.
He found five hundred earnest, thought-
ful young people and he selected among
others a southern white man to tell them
not to be “bitter !" The white man sailed
into his task jauntily. He told of the
mission of the races—“strength" from
one race, “enterprise" from another,
“aggression" from a third and from
Negroes “submission"—then he looked
into one thousand eyes and he paused.
The sweat began to ooze out on his fore-
head and his sentences got mixed. Did
he see “bitterness" in those eyes? No!
but he did nof see submission. “At
least," he stammered, “your fathers and
mothers—I don't know about you all"
and he tried a pleasant little interlude
which faded to a sickly grin. When at
last he sat down even his white friends
in the audience knew that he had missed
his opportunity. They knew still more
when a black man, William Pickens,
stood up and with unanswerable logic
told Mr. Mott and his friends that Chris-
tianity for black men started with the
right to vote and nothing less.
If our friends mean by bitterness, the
futile, impatient gestures of disgust, the
wildly boastful word and dumb despair,
let them save their advice. Colored
Americans are not gesticulating nor
EDITORIAL
181
yelling, nor committing suicide in num-
bers large enough to be alarming. But
they are looking this nation more and
more squarely in the eyes. They are
asking in calm, level voice: “How long
do you expect to keep up this foolish-
ness and how long do you expect us to
submit to it?” That is all. We are
just asking. Do you suggest duties for
us to attend to? Very good, we shall
try to attend to them; we have tried in
the past, as you may remember, and we
are trying now, as the Census reports
prove, but at the same time we keep ask-
ing the question: “How long? How
much more? What next?” This is what
we are'doing; if this be bitterness, we
are bitter.
m
THE PRIZE FIGHTER
OXING is an ancient
sport. It is mentioned in
Homer’s Iliad and Vir-
gil’s Aeneid and was a
recognized branch of the
celebrated Olympic
games. During the middle age boxing
went out of style among most nations,
the preference being given to various
sorts of encounters with weapons. In
England it was revived in the Seven-
teenth Century, and fighting with bare
fists became a national sport in the
Eighteenth Century. Boxing gloves
were invented late in that century, and
in the beginning of the Nineteenth Cen-
tury, John Jackson (note the proph-
ecy!) became champion and teacher of
Lord Byron and other great and titled
personages.
Gradually the more brutal features of
the sport were eliminated and the
eighth Marquess of Queensberry drew
up a set of rules in the sixties which
have since prevailed.
There is still today some brutality
connected with boxing, but as compared
with football and boat racing it may be
seriously questioned whether boxing de-
serves to be put in a separate class by
reason of its cruelty. Certainly it is a
highly civilized pastime as compared
with the international game of war
which produces so many “heroes” and
national monuments.
Despite all this, boxing has fallen into
disfavor—into very great disfavor. To
see publications like the New York
Times roll their eyes in shivery horror
at the news from Paris (to which it is
compelled to give a front page) makes
one realize the depths to which we have
fallen.
The cause is clear: Jack Johnson, suc-
cessor of the Eighteenth Century John
Jackson, has out-sparred an Irishman.
He did it with little brutality, the ut-
most fairness and great good nature.
He did not “knock” his opponent sense-
less. Apparently he did not even try.
Neither he nor his race invented prize
fighting or particularly like it. Why
then this thrill of national disgust?
Because Johnson is black. Of, course,
some pretend to object to Mix John-
son’s character. But we have yet to
hear, in the case of white America, that
marital troubles have disqualified prize
fighters or ball players or eyen states-
men. It comes down, then, after all to
this unforgivable blackness. Where-
fore we conclude that at present prize
fighting is very, very immoral, and that
we must rely on football and war for
pastime until Mr. Johnson retires or
permits himself to be “knocked out.”
SB
E want to call the atten-
tion of our readers to the
extraordinary advertise-
ment of books in this
number of The Crisis.
The Board of Directors
of the National Association for the Ad-
vancement of Colored People • counts
among its members some distinguished
authors. Several of these have consent-
ed to advertise their chief works with us.
The result is remarkable in many ways.
It shows the strength and influence of
our Association and it shows a belief in
high quarters that the readers of The
Crisis read books. Is this true?
SOCIAL LIFE IN COLORED AMERICA
■11
III.—A DINNER AT THE LOENDI CLUB, PITTSBURG
HOW THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE
ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE BEGAN
By Mary White Ovinqton
'T'HE National Association for the Ad-
vancement of Colored People is five
years old—old enough, it is believed, to have
a history; and I, who am perhaps its first
member, have been chosen as the person to
recite-it. As its work since 1910 lias been
set forth in its annual reports, I shall make
it my task to show how it came into exist-
ence and to tell of its first months of work.
In the summer of 1908, the country was
shocked by the account of the race riots at
Springfield, Illinois. Here, in the home of
Abraham Lincoln, a mob, containing many
of the town's “best citizens," raged for two'
days, killed and wounded scores of Negroes,
and drove thousands from the city. Arti-i
cles on the subject appeared in newspapers
and magazines. Among them was one in
the Independent of September 3d, by Wil-
liam English Walling, entitled “Race War
in the North." After describing the atroci-
ties committed against the colored people,
Mr. Walling declared:
“Either the spirit of the abolitionists, of
Lincoln and of Lovejoy must bo revived and
we must come to treat the Negro on a plane
of absolute political and social equality, or
Vardaman and Tillman will soon have trans-
ferred the race war to the North." And he
ended with these words, “Yet who realizes
the seriousness of the situation, and what
large and powerful body of citizens is ready
to come to their aid?"
It so happened that one of Mr. Walling’s
readers accepted his question and answered
it. For four years I had been studying the
status of the Negro in New York. I had
investigated his housing conditions, his
health, his opportunities for work. I had
spent many months in the South, and at
the time of Mr. Walling’s article, I was liv-
ing in a New York Negro tenement on a
Negro street. And my investigations and
my surroundings led me to believe with the
writer of the article that “the spirit of the
abolitionists must be revived."
So I wrote to Mr. Walling, and after some
days, for he was in the West, we met in
New York in the first week of the year 1909.
With us was Dr. Henry Moskowitz, now
prominent in the administration of John
Purroy Mitchell, Mayor of New York. It
was then that the National Association for
the Advancement of Colored People was
born.
It was born in a little room of a New
York apartment. It is to be regretted that
there are no minutes- of the first meeting,
for they would make interesting if unpar-
liamentary reading. Mr. Walling had spent
some years in Russia where his wife, work-
ing in the cause of the revolutionists, had
suffered imprisonment; and he expressetfhis
belief that the Negro was treated with great-
er inhumanity in the United States than the
Jew was treated in Russia. As Mr. Walling
is a Southerner we listened with conviction.
I knew something of the Negro’s difficulty
in securing decent employment in the North
and of the insolent treatment awarded him
at Northern hotels and restaurants, and I
voiced my protest. Dr. Moskowitz, with his
broad .knowledge of conditions among New
York’s helpless immigrants, aided us iu
properly interpreting ou$ facts. And so we
talked and talked, voicing our indignation.
.Of course, we wanted to do something at
once that should move the country. It was
January. Why not choose Lincoln’s birth-
day, February 12, to open our campaign?
We decided, therefore, that a wise immediate
action would be the issuing on Lincoln’s
birthday of a call for a national conference
on the Negro question. At this conference
we might discover the beginnings, at least,
of that “large and powerful body of citi-
zens" of which Mr. Walling had written.
And So the meeting adjourned.- Something
definite was determined upon, and our next
step. was to call .others into our council^.
We at once turned* to Mr. Oswald Garrison
Villard, editor of the Evening Post. He re-
ceived our suggestions with enthusiasm, and
aided us in securing the co-operation of able
and representative men and women. It was
he who drafted the Lincoln’s birthday call
and helped to give it wide publicity. I give
the Call in its entirety since it expresses, I
think, better than anything else we have
published, the spirit of those who are active
in the Association’s cause.
“The celebration of the Centennial of the
birth of Abraham Lincoln, widespread and
grateful as it may be, will fail to justify
HOW THE N. A. A. C. P. BEGAN
185
itself if it takes no note of and makes no
recognition of the colored men and women
to whom the great emancipator labored to
assure freedom. Besides a day of rejoicing,
Lincoln's birthday in 1909 should be one of
taking stock* of the nation's progress since
18G5.
“How far has it lived up to the obligations
imposed upon it by tbe Emancipation Pro-
clamation ? How far has it gone in assuring
to each and every citizen, irrespective of
color, the equality of opportunity and equal-
ity before the law, which underlie our Amer-
ican institutions and are guaranteed by the
Constitution ?
“If Mr. Lincoln could revisit this country
in the flesh, he would be disheartened and
discouraged. He would learn that on Jan-
uary 1, 1909, Georgia had rounded out a
new confederacy by disfranchising the
Negro, after the manner of all the other
Southern States. He would learn that the
Supreme Court of the United States, sup-
posedly a bulwark of American liberties, had
refused every opportunity to pass squarely
upon this disfranchisement of millions, by
laws avowedly discriminatory and openly
enforced in such manner that the white men
may vote and black men be without a vote
in their government; he would discover,
therefore, that taxation without representa-
tion is the lot of millions of wealth-produc-
ing American citizens, in whose hands rests
the economic progress and welfare of an
entire section of the country.
“He would learn that the Supreme Court,
according to the official statement of one of
its own judges in • the Berea College case,
has laid down the principle that if an indi-
vidual State chooses, it may 'make it a crime
for white and colored persons to frequent
the same market place at the same time, or
appear in an assemblage of citizens con-
vened to consider questions of a public or
political nature in which all citizens, with-
out regard to race,’ are equally interested.'
“In many states Lincoln would find justice
enforced, if at all, by judges elected by one
element in a community to pass upon the
liberties and lives of another. He would see
the black men and women, for whose free-
dom a hundred thousand of soldiers gave
their lives, set apart in trains, in which they
pay first-class fares for third-class service,
and segregated in railway stations and in
places of entertainment; he would observe
that State after State declines to do its ele-
mentary duty in preparing the Negro
through education for the best exercise of
citizenship.
“Added to this, the spread of lawless at-
tacks upon the Negro, North, South, and
West—even in the Springfield made famous
by Lincoln—often accompanied by revolting
brutalities, sparing neither sex nor age nor
youth, could but shock the author of the
sentiment that 'government of the people, by
the people, for the people; shall not perish
from the earth.'
“Silence under these conditions means
tacit approval. The indifference of the
North is already responsible for more than
one assault upon democracy, and every such
attack reacts as unfavorably upon whites as
upon blacks. Discrimination once permitted
cannot be bridled; recent history in the
South shows that in forging chains for the
Negroes the white voters are forging chains
for themselves. 'A house divided against it-
self cannot stand’; this government cannot
exist half-slave and half-free any better to-
day than it could in 1861.
“Hence we call upon all the believers in
democracy to join in a national conference
for the discussion of present evils, the voic-
ing .of protests, and the renewal of the
struggle for civil and political liberty.''
This call was signed by: Jane Addams,
Chicago; Samuel Bowles (Springfield Re-
public ayi) ; Prof. W. L. Bulkley, New York;
Harriet Stanton Blatch, New York; Ida
Wells Barnett, Chicago; E. H. Clement,
Boston; Kate Claghorn, New York; Prof.
John Dewey, New York; Dr. W. E. B. Du-
Bois, Atlanta; Mary E. Dreier, Brooklyn;
Dr. John L. Elliott, New York; Wm. Lloyd
Garrison, Boston; Rev. Francis J. Grimke,
Washington, D. C.; William Dean Howells,
New York; Rabbi Emil G. Hirsch, Chicago;
Rev. John Haynes Holmes, New York;
Prof. Thomas C. Hall, New York; Hamil-
ton Holt, New York; Florence Kelley, New
York; Rev. Frederick Lynch, New York;
Helen Marot, New York; John E. Milhol-
land, New York; Mary E. McDowell, Chi-
cago; Prof. J. G. Merrill, Connecticut; Dr.
Henry Moskowitz, New York; Leonora
O’Reilly, New York; Mary W. Ovington,
New York; Rev. Dr. Charles H. Parkhurst,
New York; Louis F. Post, Chicago; Rev.
Dr. John P. Peters, New York; Dr. Jane
Robbins, New York; Charles Edward Rus-
sell, New York; Joseph Smith, Boston; An-
na Garlin Spencer, New York; William M.
1S6
THE CRISIS
Salter, Chicago; J. G. Phelps Stokes, New
York; Judge Wendell Stafford, Washing-
ton; Helen Stokes, Boston; Lincoln Stef-
fens, Boston; President Thwing, Western
Reserve University; Prof. W. I. Thomas,
Chicago; Oswald Garrison Villard, New
York Evening Post; Rabbi Stephen S.
Wise, New York; Bishop Alexander Wal-
ters, New York; Dr. William H. Ward, New
York; Horace White, New York; William
English Walling, New York; Lillian D.
Wald, New York; Dr. J. Milton Waldron,
Washington, D. C.; Mrs. Rodman Whar-
ton, Philadelphia; Susan P. Wharton, Phil-
adelphia; President Mary E. Woolley, Mt.
Holyoke College; Prof. Charles Zueblin,
Boston.
It was thus decided that we could hold a
conference, and the next two months were
busily spent arranging for it. Among the
men and women who attended those first
busy committee meetings were, Mr. Ray
Stannard Baker, Mr. Alexander Irvine, Dr.
Owen M. Waller, Mr. Gaylord S. White,
Miss Madeline Z. Doty, Miss Isabel Eaton,
besides many of the New York signers of the
Call. It was agreed that the conference
should be by invitation only, with the one
open meeting at Cooper Union. Over a
thousand people were invited, the Charity
Organization Hall was secured, and, on the
evening of May 30th, the conference opened
with an informal reception at the Henry
Street Settlement, given by Miss Lillian D.
Wald, one of the Association’s first and old-
est friends. The next morning our deliber-
ations began.
We have had five conferences since 1909,
but I doubt whether any have been so full
of a questioning surprise, amounting swiftly
to enthusiasm, on the part of the white peo-
ple in attendance. These men and women,
engaged in religious, social and educational
work, for the first time met the Negro who
demands, not a pittance, but his full rights
in the commonwealth. They received a stim-
ulating shock and one which they enjoyed.
They did not want to leave the meetings.
We conferred all the time, formally and in-
formally, and the Association gained in
those days many of the earnest and uncom-
promising men and women who have since
worked unfalteringly in its cause. Mr. Wil-
liam Hayes Ward, senior editor of the hide-
pendent, opened the conference, and Mr.
Charles Edward Russell, always the friend
of those who struggle for opportunity, pre-
sided at the stormy session at the close. The
full proceedings have been published by the
Association.
Out of this conference we formed a com-
mittee of forty and secured the services of
Miss Frances Blascoer, as secretary. We
were greatly hampered by lack of funds.
Important national work would present it-
self which we were unable to handle. But
our secretary was an excellent organizer, and
at the end of a year we had held four mass
meetings, had distributed thousands of
pamphlets, and numbered our membership
in the hundreds. In May, 1910, we held our
second conference in New York, and again
our meetings were attended by earnest, in-
terested people. It was then that we organ-
ized a permanent body to be known as the
National Association for the Advancement
of Colored People. Its officers were:
National President, Moorfield Storey, Bos-
ton; Chairman of the Executive Committee,
William English Walling; Treasurer, John
E.	Milholland; Disbursing Treasurer, Os-
wald Garrison Villard; Executive Secretary,
Frances Blascoer; Director of Publicity and
Research, Dr. W. E. B. DuBois.
The securing of a sufficient financial sup-
port to warrant our calling Dr. DuBois from
Atlanta University to an executive office in
the Association was the most important
work of the second conference.
When Dr. DuBois came to us we were
brought closely in touch with an organiza-
tion of colored people formed in 1905 at
Niagara and known as the Niagara Move-
ment. This organization had held important
conferences at Niagara, Harpers Ferry, and
Boston, and had attempted a work of legal
redress along very much the lines upon
which the National Association for the Ad-
vancement of Colored People was working.-
Its platform, as presented in a statement in
1905, ran as follows:
Freedom of speech and criticism.
An unfettered and unsubsidized press.
Manhood suffrage.
The abolition of all caste distinctions
based simply on race and color.
The recognition of the principle of human
brotherhood as a practical present creed.
The recognition of the highest and best
training as the monoply of no class or race.
A belief in the dignity of labor.
United effort to realize these ideals under
wise and courageous leadership.
In 1910 it had conducted important civil
HOW THE N. A. A. C. P. BEGAN
187
right's cases and had in its membership some
of the 4ablest colored lawyers in the country,
with Mr. W. Ashbie Hawkins, who has since
worked with our Association on the Balti-
more Segregation acts, as its treasurer.
The Niagara Movement, hampered as it
was by lack of funds and by an absence of
influential white friends, continued to push
slowly on, but when the larger possibilities
of this new Association were clear, the mem-
bers of the Niagara Movement were advised
to join, as the platforms were practically
identical. Many of the most prominent
members of the Niagara Movement thus
brought their energy and ability into the
service of the Association, and eight are now
serving on its Board of Directors.
Our history, after 1910, may be read in
our annual reports, and in the numbers of
The Crisis. We opened two offices in the
Evening Post Building. With Dr. DuBois
came Mr. Frank M. Turner, a Wilber-
force graduate, who has shown great effi-
ciency in handling our books. In November
of 1910 appeared the first number of The
Crisis, with Dr. Dubois as editor, and Mary
Dunlop Maclean, whose death has been the
greatest loss the Association has known, as
managing editor. Our propaganda work
was put on a national footing, our legal
work was well under way, we were a Nation-
al Association, pledged to a nation-wide
work for justice to the Negro race.
As I look back over the past five busy
years, I see that we have surmounted many
difficulties. We have had to encounter the
malicious perversion of our motives by those
not in agreement with us, and to defend our-
selves against their insincere attacks. We
have also been obliged to reaffirm the in-
tegrity of our motives to those sincere critics
who doubt that a democratic organization of
white and colored people is possible. We
have had to insist, sometimes to our most
ardent enthusiasts, that we demand not faith
alone, but works. But through our five
years we have steadily gained in efficiency,
in power, and in national repute.
At our last annual meeting the Chairman
of the Board was able to say: “We have
more than doubled our membership during
the past year, having twenty-four branches
and 3,000 members, as against eleven
branches and 1,100 members last year. To
the Secretary I shall leave the duty of re-
porting in fuller detail upon our organiza-
tion, but I must add that at headquarters
here at New York we have a staff of four-
teen employees. Of these the National As-
sociation, as contrasted with The Crisis,
our magazine, carries its own staff of five—
the Secretary, the Attorney, two stenogra-
phers and one clerk.”
Each year brings us many important ques-
tions, and each year we try to give them our
wisest, most thoughtful decisions. We are
striving to secure the constitutional rights
of the colored people, to win “Jim Crow”
cases, segregation cases, disfranchisement
cases. This brings us in close relation with
the courts, the most conservative institution
in our commonwealth. At the same time we
stand on the audaciously radical platform of
the abolition of all caste. Shall we always
be the voice of the prophet on the housetop,
telling the nation of its sins, or shall we en-
deavor to practice diplomacy, even in the
midst of our agitation? This is a question
that may never be satisfactorily answered;
but it is interesting to note that the colored
people have come to us with their warmest
allegiance in proportion to the constructive
work we have been able to do. As one of
their distinguished scholars wrote me at the
close of the Association's first conference:
“I trust that the conference will result in
real work, I am beginning to feel that too
much time is wasted in talk which issues in
no definite action or plan of action. There
is an immense amount of work to be done in
many lines, and when I say work I do not
exclude agitation which is in itself a real
work, but needs to be organized just as any
successful work needs organization.”
I remember the afternoon that The Crisis
received its name. We were sitting around
the conventional table that seems a necessary
adjunct to every Board, and were having an
informal talk regarding the new magazine.
We touched the subject of poetry.
“There is a poem of Lowell's,” I said,
“that means more to me to-day than any
other poem in the world—‘The Present
Crisis.' ”
Mr. Walling looked up. “The Crisis,” he
said. “There is the name for your maga-
zine, The Crisis.”
And if we had a creed to which our mem-
bers, black and white, our branches North
and South and East and West, our college
societies, our children circles, should all sub-
scribe, it should be the lines of Lowell's
noble verse, lines that are as true to-day as
when they were written seventy years ago:
188
THE CRISIS
“Once to every man and nation comes the
moment to decide,
In the strife of Truth with Falsehood for
the good or evil side;
Some great cause, God’s new Messiah, offer-
ing each the bloom or blight,
Parts the goats upon the left hand, and the
sheep upon the right,
And the choice goes by forever ’twixt that
darkness and that light.
“Then to side with Truth is noble when we
share her wretched crust,
Ere her cause bring fame and profit, and
,tis prosperous to be just;
Then it is the brave man chooses, while the
coward stands aside,
Doubting in his abject spirit, till his Lord
is crucified,
And the multitude make virtue of the faith
they had denied.”
“I WILL STUDY AND MAKE READY. AND MAYBE MY CHANCE WILL COME.1
HIS MOTTO
By Lottie Burrell Dixon
now, at once, or you’ll go to- well, as
Fm only your medical, and not your spirit-
ual advisor, my prognostications as to your
ultimate destination would probably have
very little weight with you.”
“Oh well, if you- are so sure, I suppose
I can cut loose now, if it comes to a choice
like that.”
• The doctor smiled his satisfaction. “So
you prefer to bear the ills of New York than
to fly to others you know not of, eh?”
UT I can’t leave my business
affairs and go off on a fish-
ing trip now.”
The friend and specialist
who had tricked John Dur-
mont into a confession of
physical bankruptcy, and
made him submit to an examination in spite
of himself, now sat back with an “I wash
my hands of you” gesture.
“Very well, you can either go to Maine,
HIS MOTTO
189
“Oh, have a little mercy on Shakespeare,
at least. I’ll go.”
And thus it was that a week later found
Durmont as deep in the Maine woods as he
could get and still be within reach of a tele-
graph wire. And much to his surprise he
found he liked it.
As he lay stretched at full length on the
soft turf, the breath of the pines filled his
lungs, the lure of the lake made him eager
to get to his fishing tackle, and he admitted
to himself that a man needed just such a
holiday as this in order to keep his mental
and physical balance.
Returning to the gaily painted frame
building, called by courtesy the “Hotel,”
which nestled among the pines, he met the
youthful operator from the near-by station
looking for him with a message from his
broker. A complicated situation had arisen
in Amalgamated Copper, and an immediate
answer was needed. Durmont had heavy in-
vestments in copper, though his business was
the manufacture of electrical instruments.
He walked back to the office with the op-
erator while pondering the answer, then hav-
ing written it, handed it to the operator
saying, “Tell them to rush answer.”
The tall, lank youth, whose every move-
ment was a protest against being hurried,
dragged himself over to the telegraph key.
“’S open”
“What’s open?”
“Wire.”
“Well, is that the only wire you have?”
“Yep.”
“What in the dickens am I going to do
about this message?”
“Dunno, maybe it’ll close bime-by.” And
the young lightning slinger pulled towards
him a lurid tale of the Wild West, and pro-
ceeded to enjoy himself.
“And meanwhile, what do you suppose is
going to happen to me?” thundered Dur-
mont. “Haven’t you ambition enough to
look around your wire and see if you can
find the trouble?”
“Lineman’s paid to look up trouble, I
ain’t,” was the surly answer.
Durmont was furious, but what he was
about to say was cut off by a quiet voice at
his elbow.
“I noticed linemen repairing wires upon
the main road, that’s where this wire is open.
If you have any message you are in a hurry
to send> perhaps I can help you out.”
Durmont turned to see a colored boy of
fifteen whose entrance he had not noticed.
“What can you do about it,” he asked
contemptuously, “take it into town in an ox
team?”
“I can send it by wireless, if that is suffi-
ciently quick.”
Durmont turned to the operator at the
table.
“Is there a wireless near here?”
“He owns one, you’ll have to do business
with him on that,” said the youth with a
grin at Durmont’s unconcealed prejudice.
It would be hard to estimate the exact
amount of respect, mingled with surprise,
with which the city man now looked at the
boy whose information he had evidently
doubted till confirmed by the white boy.
“Suppose you’ve got some kind of tom-
fool contraption that will take half a day to
get a message into the next village. Here I
stand to lose several thousands because this
blame company runs only one wire down to
this camp. Where is this apparatus of
yours? Might as well look at it while I’m
waiting for this one-wire office to get into
commission again.”
“It’s right up on top of the hill,” answered
the colored boy. “Here, George, I brought
down this wireless book if you want to look
it over, it’s better worth reading than that
stuff you have there,” and tossing a book
on the table he went out followed by Dur-
mont.
A couple of minutes’ walk brought them
in sight of the sixty-foot aerial erected on
the top of a small shack.
“Not much to look at, but I made it all
myself.”
“How did you happen to—construct this?”
And Durmont really tried to keep the em-
phasis off the “you.”
<fWell, I’m interested in all kinds of elec-
trical experiments, and have kept up read-
ing and studying ever since I left school,
then when I came out her^ on my uncle’s
farm, he let me rig up this wireless, and
I can talk to a chum of mine down in the
city. And when I saw the wire at the sta-
tion was gone up, I thought I might pos-
sibly get your message to New York through
him.”
They had entered the one room shack
which contained a long table holding a wire-
less outfit, a couple of chairs and a shelf of
books. On the walls were tacked pictures of
190
THE CRISIS
aviators and drawings of aeroplanes. A
three-foot model of a biplane hung in one
corner.
“Now if he is only in,” said the boy, going
over to the table and giving the call.
“He’s there,” he said eagerly, holding out
his hand for message.
Durmont handed it to him. His face still
held the look of doubt and unbelief as he
looked at the crude, home-made instruments.
“Suppose I might as well have hired a
horse and taken it into town.” But the
sputtering wire drowned his voice.
“And get on your wheel and go like blazes.
Tell ’em to rush answer. This guy here
thinks a colored boy is only an animated
shoe-blacking outfit; it’s up to us to remedy
that defect in his education, see!” Thus sang
the wires as Durmont paced the floor.
“I said,” began the nervous man as the
wires became quiet. “I—” again the wire
sputtered, and he couldn’t hear himself talk.
When it was quiet, he tried again, but as
soon as he began to grumble, the wire began
to sputter. He glanced suspiciously at the
boy, but the latter was earnestly watching
his instruments.
“Say,” shouted Durmont, “does that thing
have to keep up that confounded racket all
the time ?”
“I had to give him some instructions, you
know, and also keep in adjustment.”
“Well, I’ll get out of adjustment myself,
if that keeps up.”
Durmont resigned himself to silence, and
strangely enough, so did the wire. Walking
around the room he noticed over the shelf
of books a large white card on which was
printed in gilt letters:
“I WILL STUDY AND MAKE READY,
AND MAY BE MY CHANCE WILL
COME.”	ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
Durmont read this, and then looked at the
boy as if seeing him for the first time.
Again he looked at the words, and far be-
yond them he law his own struggling boy-
hood, climbing daily Life’s slippery path,
trying to find some hold by which to pull
himself up. And as . he watched the. brown
skinned boy bending over the instruments,
instinct told him here was one who would
find, it still harder to fight his way up, be-
cause of caste.
“Ah!”
The exclamation startled him. The boy
with fones adjusted was busily writing.
“Well, has that partner of yours got that
message down at his end yet?”
“Yes, sir, and here is your answer from
New York.”
“Why, it’s only been half an hour since
I wrote it,” said Durmont.
“Yes, that horse wouldn’t have got into
town yet,” grinned the boy.
Durmont snatched the paper, read it,
threw his cap in the air, exclaiming: “The
day is saved. Boy, you’re a winner. How
much?” putting his hand in his pocket sug-
gestively.
“How much you owe to my help, I don't
know,” answered the lad sagely. “I offered
to help because you needed it, and I was
glad of the chance to prove what I believed
I could do. I’m satisfied because I suc-
ceeded.”
Durmont sat down heavily on the other
chair; his nerves couldn’t stand much more
in one afternoon. To find himself threat-
ened with a large financial loss; to have this
averted by the help of the scientific knowl-
edge of a colored boy, and that boy rating
the fact of his success higher than any pe-
cuniary compensation—he had to pull him-
self together a bit.
His eyes fell on the motto on the wall.
He read it thoughtfully, considered how
hard the boy had worked because of that,
his hopes of the future based on that; saw
the human element in him as it had not ap-
pealed to him before, and then turning
something over in his mind, muttered to him-
self, “It’s nobody’s business if I do.”
He got up, and walking over to the boy,
said: “What’s your name?”
“Robert Hilton.”
“Well, Robert, that motto you’ve got up
there is a pretty good one to tie too. Ydu
certainly have studied; you have made your-
self ready as far as your resources will per-
mit, and I’ll be hanged if I don’t stand for
the ‘chance.’ In the manufacturing of elec-
trical instruments you could have great op-
portunity for inventive talent, and in my
concern you shall have your chance, and go
as far as your efficiency will carry you.
What do you say, would you care for it?”
“I’d care for it more than for any other
thing on earth, and am very grateful for the
chance.”
“The chance wouldn’t be standing here
now if you had not had the inclination and
the determination to live up to those words
on the wall.”
THE NEW WILBERFORCE
OST people know something
of Wilberforce University.
It is the oldest colored in-
stitution of learning in
America, and has a right
to date its foundation at
1844, when Daniel A.
Payne started Union Seminary near Colum-
bus, O. In 1856 Wilberforce was started at
Tawawa Springs by the Methodist Church
and this property eventually passed to the
African Methodist Church. All this is well
known, but few people realize that side by
side with the old Wilberforce has come a
new Wilberforce.
The new Wilberforce is a separate and
distinct institution carried on by the State
of Ohio on a campus adjoining Wilberforce
University. There are close bonds between
the two institutions. The president of Wil-
berforce University and two others represent
the institution on the Board of Trustees of
what is officially known as “The Combined
Normal and Industrial Department at Wil-
berforce University.” There are nine trus-
tees altogether and these trustees conduct a
normal school and a school of trades. In
four years the work of the normal depart-
ment has been raised so as to require a full
high school course before students enter up-
on it. The teaching force has been greatly
strengthened and the salaries increased. The
campus consists of one hundred and thirty
acres with four large buildings and a num-
ber of shops and residences.
Probably the most advanced step taken by
any Negro school or college is the new plan
of Wilberforce Normal and Industrial De-
partment to pay all teachers for eleven
months and require the teachers, when not
needed for the summer work, to attend some
school or institution for self-improvement.
Thus the teacher will be on pay while in-
creasing his efficiency by study or travel at
the direction of the Board and Superinten-
dent. All teachers will now be engaged on
this basis, and the result is sure to be in-
creased efficiency and enthusiasm in all
branches of work.
	\ '• i • v? • ■	\ •. ■ K.	.	'
	*•.' V •-*	V.'.	-- —» •	srt A E7.—\ *yvy~-~	k. -.	
THE COMMENCEMENT CROWD AT OLD WILBERFORCE
192
THE CRISIS
The enrollment in
1913-14 was 553, an
increase of nearly
100 per cent, over
1910. A summer
school is held, taught
by the best Negro
educators obtainable.
At the head of the
new Wilberforce and
responsible for its
present organization
and advance is Mr.
William A. Joiner,
“Superintendent and
Financial Officer for
tbe State of Ohio at
Wilberforce.” Su-
perintendent Joiner
is under a bond of
$20,000 and has had
a long and careful
training for his
work. He is a grad-
uate of Wilberforce
University and the
Law and Pedagogi-
cal Departments of Howard. For six years
he was a teacher in the M Street High
School at Washington, and for seven years
Director of Training
School at Howard
University. He was
elected to his present
position in 1910 to
succeed Mr. J. P-
Shorter, deceased.
By business meth-
ods and economy in
the management, the
confidence of the
State Auditor and
the Legislature has
been won and much
more liberal appro-
priations are made
now than formerly,
because the State
knows how the mon-
ey is being spent and
is able to see the
result. Since Mr.
Joiner’s advent the
State has spent$305,-
000 to make new Wil-
berforce an efficient,
modern institution.
The work of the present summer school at
Wilberforce, which is the second summer
session, calls attention to the new life which
GALLOWAY HALL AND AUDITORIUM
THE NEW WILBERFORCE
193
A BATTALION OF WILBERFORCE CADETS
has been infused into that institution in the tories have been erected, one by the State
past few years. Two beautiful new dormi- and one by the college. The State building
MITCHELL HALL. HOME OF THE SENIOR GIRLS
194
THE CRISIS
THE NEW WILBERFORCE—A WINTER SCENE
designed as a model home for senior girls of
all departments, is probably the most com-
pletely equipped dormitory to be found at
any Negro institution.
Wilberforce is the only Negro school with
a military department recognized by the
federal government.
From the first, difficult and perplexing
questions as to the relations of the old and
new Wilberforce have arisen. These ques-
tions are pressing to-day and must be settled.
The old Wilberforce—the venerable institu-
tion of Daniel Payne and his co-workers—is
to-day woefully short of funds. Instead of
combining to the liberal support of one
great institution, the Church has unfortu-
nately divided its efforts among many
schools and the result is to-day that the
older institution, with almost no money, is
co-partner with a new and vigorous State
institution, with the millions of Ohio back
of it. What is to be done? Certainly there
must be no attempt to hold back and hamper
the newer institution because of the poverty
of the older. Let both institutions hold up
the Superintendent’s hands and make the
new Wilberforce vigorous and efficient. At
the same time let the Church rally to the
older Wilberforce and make it worthy of its
great traditions and a sister equal to its
State partner.
The Auditor of the State of Ohio said in
a recent bulletin:
“We believe Wilberforce Normal and In-
dustrial Department has not a superior, .if
an equal, in the State, and we know no other
school can offer such advantages to its white
students at twice the expense. . . .
“As Chairman John Cowan and D. F.
Mooney of the Appropriations Committee
of the House of Representatives well say,
no other institution of the State ‘makes a
dollar go as far’ as Wilberforce. And no
money spent by the State produces more
beneficial and lasting results.”
The influence of Wilberforce, old and
new, on the mental, social and moral welfare
of the colored raee not only of Ohio but of
the whole world is incalcuable. Ten thou-
sand students have received training at Wil-
berforce. Five hundred teachers have gone
forth into every state and into all lands to
uplift the race, many are teachers in and
presidents of other colleges, some are pro-
fessional men, and hundreds are splendid
mechanics, due to industrial training at
Wilberforce.
PROBLEM LITERATURE
Out of the House of Bondage. By Kelly Miller.
The Neale Publishing Company, New York. 1914.
242 pages. $1.50.
The Neale Publishing Company, of New
York City, is composed of southern men and
sympathizers. They have published books
of all sorts and among them several by col-
ored men. They also publish a magazine
which is usually filled with outrageous abuse
of Negroes with, now and then, an article
by a colored man. It is the last straw to
have a company like this insult a man of the
prominence of Kelly Miller by publishing
his last book of essays with “Negro” un-
capitalized and with the last sentence of the
longest and titular essay (page 41) so
wretchedly garbled as to be absolutely with-
out sense. Mr. Miller writes us: “I re-
quired the capital N in ‘Race Adjustment1
and took it for granted that the publishers
would use it in this case. I noted the small
n in the proof; but correction at that stage
was prohibitive. . . . As to the last sentence
in the titular chapter, I am amazed at it.
This article appeared in Neale’s Magazine
for October. The last word the is made
‘thee’ and the rest of the statement is left
out. It is a serious typographical blunder.”
However, it will take more than careless
or prejudiced publishers to spoil any work
of Kelly Miller. The present book consists
of three poems, a book review, six long es-
says and three short ones. There is no at-
tempt at unity in these articles, all of which
have been published before in magazines.
The titular essay is in celebration of the
Golden Jubilee of Emancipation. There fol-
low essays on Miscegenation, Education,
Crime, the Negro in Politics and in the Pro-
fessions, and the strongest essay in the book
on the “Ultimate Race Problem” which first
appeared in the Nineteenth Century and
After” and brought much favorable com-
ment. Characteristically, the present pub-
lishers have carelessly spoiled its heading.
A book like this must have much repeti-
tion but also, in compensation, a certain
freshness and unity in the single chapters.
One finds here not so much constructive
thought as deep discernment and, now and
then, brilliant phrasing. Miller is, above all,
a critic—a subtle, half humorous critic, who
sees the fact and foible with unerring vision
and evolves not a new system but the abso-
lute necessity to rectify the old. His poem,
“I See and Am Satisfied,” is the peculiar
embodiment of his gifts and philosophy. It
is a splendid bit of writing and, together
with his “Oath of Afro-American,” ought to
fix his place in American letters.
f§]
Modern Industry in relation to the Family, Health,
Education and Morality. By Florence Kelly. Long-
mans, Green & Co., New York. 1914.	147 pages.
Women’s clubs and other general readers
who want to know “What it’s all about,” and
what the problem of modern industry is, out-
side the obvious matters of wages and divi-
dends should begin with this little book.
Mrs. Kelly says:
“Modern industry affords, in more gener-
ous measure than the human race has before
known them, all those goods which form the
material basis of family life—food, clothing,
shelter, and the materials and opportunities
for subsistence for husband, wife and chil-
dren.
“But modern industry tends to disintegrate
the family, so threatens it that the civilized
nations are, and for at least one generation
have been, actively bnilding a code intended
to save the family from this destructive
pressure.
“This is the paradox of modern industry.
“It is my object to illustrate this paradox
by indicating some forms of the pressure of
industry upon the family, and upon each of
its elements.”
She begins her final chapter with this sig-
nificant word:
“We are undergoing a transition in the
life of the nation greater than any hitherto
experienced, a change immeasurably greater
than the freeing of four million slayes, a
half century ago, as an incident of a long
and terrible war.”
How many colored people know of this
new and vaster emancipation and realize the
part they must play in it?
[§§
Progress! vism and After. By William English
Walling. Macmillan, New York, 1914.	406 pages.
Readers of the Crisis would do well to
become acquainted with Mr. Walling’s three
studies of socialism: “Socialism ds it is,”
“The Larger Aspects of Socialism,” and the
one which we notice here. Slowly but surely
colored folk are beginning to realize the pos-
sible meaning of socialism for them. They
must, therefore, begin to be intelligent on the
subject and Mr. Walling’s works are recom-
196
THE CRISIS
mended to them. This particular book com-
pels our attention because it .treats a subject
which most socialists sedulously avoid, viz.,
the relation of socialism to the race question.
Walling quotes Roosevelt as saying:
“ ‘Advanced* Socialist leaders are fond of
declaring against patriotism, of announcing
their movement as international, and of
claiming to treat all men alike; but on this
point, as on all others, their system would
not stand for one moment the test of actual
experience. If the leaders of the Socialist
party in America should to-day endeavor to
force their followers to admit .all Negroes
and Chinamen to a real equality, their party
would promptly disband and, rather than to
submit to such putting into effect of their
avowed purposes, would, as a literal fact,
follow any capitalistic organization as an
alternative.”
Is this true? Mr. Walling recites the fol-
lowing facts:
1.	In the Chicago Socialistic Congress,
1900, more than one-third of the delegates
favored action which recognized racial lines.
2.	Unterman, recently Socialist candidate
for Governor of Idaho, declared openly that
socialists must work for the final domina-
tion of the white race.
3.	At the Indianapolis Convention, 1912,
the same committee of which Robert Hunter
was a member, brought in a report which
said: “Race feeling is not so much a result
of social as of biological evolution. It does
not change essentially with changes of eco-
nomic systems. It is deeper than any class
feeling and will outlast the capitalist system.
It persists even after race prejudice has been
outgrown.”
This report was not adopted but it had
strong support and the same committee was
continued.	, ,
On the other hand, the International So-
cialist Congress at Stuttgart, Germany, de-
clared : “The Congress sees no proper solu-
tion of these difficulties in the exclusion of
definite nations or races from immigration,
a policy which is, besides, in conflict with
the principles of proletarian solidarity.”
Thus the matter rests to-day. But it will
not rest here forever. More and more the
problem of the modern workingman is merg-
ing with the problem of the color line. So
long as black laborers are slaves white la-
borers cannot be free and the proffered
bribe of race “inferiority” will never pay the
white workingman for joining capitalism in
the attempt to enslave “coolies.”
MR, G. T. STEPHENSON, a young
North Carolina white man, has written
interestingly and in good spirit on legal race
distinctions. A volume appeared in 1910
and two articles in the South Atlantic Quar-
terly in January and April of this year.
These articles strikingly show the dangers
of race discrimination in a republic. Mr.
Stephenson is, in his book, a rather com-
placent expositor, if not defender, of legal
caste; and while he defends race “distinc-
tions,” he is not favorable to “race discrim-
inations” and wants equal, if separate, ac-
commodations on cars, etc. When in January
he writes on segregation in cities, he is still
complacent.
“Is there any inherent difference between
separating the races in public conveyances
and in public places and in separating them
in their residences, provided vested rights
are properly protected? That is the ques-
tion which the Supreme Court of the United
States has yet to answer.”
Then comes Mr. Poe and his rural segre-
gation and Mr. Stephenson wakes up and
calls a halt.
“It must be clear to the impartial observer
that this plan of segregation involves a
policy of repression of the Negro in that it
is withholding from him an equal showing
in the distribution of the land of the state.
If the white people are to select the segre-
gation districts, then they will naturally se-
lect for themselves the most desirable dis-
tricts and leave the Negro to take the
balance. This is exactly what has been done
in Roanoke, Va. That city was divided into
five segregation districts. Four of those dis-
tricts were definitely laid off and described
by metes and bonds and set apart for white
people. The fifth district, which comprised
all the balance of the city that the white
people did not want for themselves, was set
apart for the Negro. . . .
“This is probably the most delicate race
issue that has arisen since Emancipation be-
cause it involves fundamental rights. Voting,
for instance, is a privilege; but the right to
hold property is inherent in citizenship and
should not be tampered with without great
caution.”	,
But really, Mr. Stephenson, “is there any
inherent difference between separating the
races” in cities and rural districts? In cities
or on railroads? On railroads and in pub-
lic places? There is not. All are equally
wrong.
COLORED	MEN	AND	WOMEN
LYNCHED	• WITHOUT		TRIAL
1885		78	1900...		 107
1886		71	1901...		 107
1887		80	1902...		 86
1888		95	1903...		 86
1889		95	1904...		 83
1890		90	1905...		 61
1891		121	1906...		 64
1892		155	1907...		 60
1893		154	1908...		 93
1894		134	1909...		 73
1895		112	1910...		 65
1896		SO	1911...		 63
1897		122	1912...		 63
1898		102	1913...		 79
1899	 Total		84			2,662
COLORED MEN AND WOMEN
LYNCHED IN 1914
Reported in January................ 5
Reported in	February................ 4
Reported in	March..................  6
Reported in	April................... 1
Reported in	May..................... 4
Reported in	June.................... 2
Total number for six months.... 22
EB
DISCRIMINATION
Graham, Va., May 27, 1914.
The Crisis:
The Graham Colored Civic League was or-
ganized two years ago and has spent $675.98
in two years in order to keep our school
open six months a year. We have to rent
buildings, buy our fuel, furnish school sup-
plies, etc., or have our school reduced to
four and one-half or five months. In addi-
tion we have bought a school site and we are
trying to get the state and town council to
erect a building for us. The white people
have a $50,000 school building with 550 stu-
dents enrolled, and sixteen teachers. We
have no building, 350 students and three
teachers. The white people have nine months
of school and we have four and one-half or
five months, providing we furnish every-
thing except teachers. I am taxed $1.50 for
state and county and $1.00 for town direct
school tax. Tell anyone who claims that we
get a square deal in the South to turn black,
or rather be classed as black, and come down.
Yours for success,
B
A WHITE SCHOOL TRUSTEE TO A
COLORED APPLICANT
Lucy A. Turner
Washington, D. C.
Yours rec’d the requirements for position
of teacher in this District is that they must
teach the children goodwill towards the
whites & if this is unpossible with you we
will not tolerate any other action
Yours truly
F. L. Cunningham, M.D.
EB
Colored people are excluded from a cer-
tain part of the beach at Cape May, N. J.,
There are signs up stating that this, is pri-
vate property, and while no mention of color
is made on the signs, the guards do not al-
low colored people to use this part and the
Mayor says that he issued the order at the
complaint of some of the proprietors that
their patronage was decreasing. Colored
people are permitted to bathe at a less fre-
quented part of the beach.
The State Board of Education of Mary-
land has ruled that white persons may not be
supervisors of colored schools.
198
THE CRISIS
THE SOULS OF WHITE FOLK
St. Louis, Mo., May 23, 1914.
Dear Mr. Du Bois:
I have just read “Souls of Black Folk,”
and across the color line I extend to you a
hand of sympathy and profound apprecia-
tion.
It must be that thousands of white people
have been moved by this book even as I am,
and feel the same heavy despairing pain over
our individual inability to contribute even a
mite toward the removal of a mountain of
ignorance, injustice, and folly. It would
ease my impatient pain to know that in my
race I am not suffering alone. Assure me, if
you can, and tell me whether the outlook has
been brightened since the book was written.
By what amounts almost to divination,
Negroes must learn to recognize their friends
in the white race, for friends they must
have, though my limited experience has hard-
ly revealed any to me—friends of the
Negroes’ cause. Assuming that such friends
exist, they cannot, like you, give open voice
to their beliefs. Yet much were gained by a
tacit recognition of interest and good will.
Pardon the seeming intrusion. Know that
not all of the anguish and despair is on
your side of the color line.
Sincerely yours,
m
THE AMBITIONS OF LORENZO
(From a Washington (D. C.) Circular)
rT'HE National Democratic* Fair Play As-
■*- sociation was organized and incorporat-
ed in 1913 for the purpose of bringing into
Court all questions which will determine the
validity of the 14th and 15th Amendments
to the Constitution of the United States.
Our president, Mr. John H. Adriaans, of
this city', has devoted twenty years to com-
piling data showing the illegality of the or-
ganization of the legislatures of many of the
states which voted to ratify these amend-
ments.
In the case of U. S. versus Guinn and
Beal, docket number 423, testing the “Grand-
fathers Clause” of the State of Oklahoma,
this Association had him file a brief in
October last. We need not say more than
that the case is still undecided—no decision
being handed down as yet.
Now, then, fellow citizens, this movement
is not local—aiming solely to oppose the ap-
pointment of a Negro Recorder of Deeds for
the District of Columbia—but it is national,
and effects every white citizen in the U. S.
The question is shall the Negro enjoy
rights, illegally, which we deny one-half of
the while people? No!
Therefore we hope you will contribute lib-
erally when the officers pass the hat through
the audience. Those who happen to come
unprepared may drop name and address,
with amount pledged, in the hat, and our
Secretary will collect at their convenience.
Lorenzo G. Warfield,
Secretary.
June 20, 1914.
I wish to express my sincere thanks to my
friends and others who so generously en-
dorsed me for the office of Recorder of
Deeds for the District of Columbia, having
withdrawn my application under date and
as follows.
Lorenzo G. Warfield.
8th and K Sts., N. W.,
Washington, D. C., Oct. 18, 1913.
To the President of the United States,
Washington, D. C.
Honorable Sir:
I hereby withdraw my application for ap-
pointment as Recorder of Deeds for the
District of Columbia, and the endorsements
in my behalf thereof.
Your refusal to receive a duly appointed
Committee of the National Democratic Fair
Play Association, and subsequently the wide-
ly heralded reception of several Negro or-
ganizations, indicate clearly to my mind your
position as to the race question.
Your refusal to take cognizance of the
sworn statement of three ladies employed in
the office of the Recorder of- Deeds, showing
the disgraceful condition existing in that
office, which were placed in your hands four
months ago by Representative Ben Johnson,
and recalled to you subsequently by Senator
James K. Yardaman, satisfies me that your
Secretary and Manager does not truly gauge
the temper of the American people on this
question.
I therefore gladly relinquish any claim to
any political preferment, 1 may, or may not
have, and will consecrate the next three years
of my life to the uplift of a white democratic
party, as far as my humble efforts will do so.
Very truly yours,
Lorenzo G. Warfield,
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
199
THE ANNUAL
Child ren’s Number
CJ The most popular number of the CRISIS is the
Children’s Number.
<U This will be the OCTOBER number, which will
be published September 20.
^ All pictures of babies must reach us by SEPTEM-
BER FIRST. We want babies of all hues and
kinds. Send the pictures early and mark them
plainly on the back in ink.
Atlanta University
Studies of the
Negro Problems
17 Monographs	Sold Separately
Address
ATLANTA UNIVERSITY CONFERENCE
ATLANTA UNIVERSITY	ATLANTA. GA.
The Curse of Race Prejudice
By James F. Morton, Jr., A. M.
An aggressive exposure by an Anglo-Saxon cham-
pion of equal rights. Startling facts and crushing
arguments. Fascinating reading. A necessity for
clear understanding and up-to-date propaganda. Be-
longs in the library of every friend of social justice.
Price 25 cents. Send orders to
JAMES F. MORTON, JR.
211 West 138th Street
HOTEL COMFORT AND CAFE
Open all the Year
Corner Second Street and Bay Avenue
Ocean City, New Jersey
Mrs. M. B. Comfort, Proprietress.
Beautiful location, fine view of Great
Egg Harbor Bay, the Inlet and the At-'
lantic Ocean. Boating, bathing, fishing
and tennis. Thirty minutes to Atlantic
City by electric cars or steamboats.
GEORGIA STATE COLORED FAIR
NOVEMBER 18-28, 1914
Want* Colored Entertainers
$5000.00 IN PREMIUMS
Write R. R. WRIGHT, President, SAVANNAH, GA.
New York, N. Y.
Mention Thx Cutis
200
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
SCHOOL OF BEAUTY CULTURE AND HAIR DRESSING
Kelsey's Hair Dressing, Hair Grower, Scalp Tonic and Face Lotion have no equal. Price, 50c. each.
Guaranteed under Food and Drug Act, June 30, 1906.
KELSEY’S
Telephone, Morningside 8162
143 West 131st St.
NEW YORK
Manicuring, Shampooing, Hair Dressing, Marcel Wav*
ing. Facial and Body Massage, Hair Making, Chiropody,
etc.,	scientifically	taught. Unlimited	practice _ in parlor
day	and night.	Pupils	taught at	home, if	desired.
Diplomas. Special Summer Course, $7.50 up. Send for
booklet. Mme. A. Carter Kelsey, Gen’l Instr.;.Dr. Samuel
A. Kelsey, Chiropodist, President and Gen’l Manager.
nrir A rilFlK The new efficiency era calls
lLALinLAJ for the rnodern way of
■electing teachers, through a live agency that furnishes
the connecting medium in a business way, saves time
of school officials, relieves teachers of the embarrass-
ment of job hunting and covers the whole country.
We have had calls for teachers from Alabama,
Arkansas, Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida,
Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Mis-
sissippi, Missouri, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Rhode
Island, South -Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia
and West Virginia.
Our list of teachers covers even a wider territory.
THE MUTUAL TEACHERS’ AGENCY
1335 T Street, N. W.	Washington, D. C.
Only
$65.00
No. 24 Southern Buggy
Highest Grade
A Value Unequaled. Sold onfi.oo
Profi, Margin From
Factory to User
Write for prices
and other styles.
Send for catslogr
C. R. PATTERSON
A 80N8,
^	.	Greenfield, Ohio
Largest Negro Carriage concern In the United States.
Start a Mail Order Business and Make Money
You can operate in your own home during spare
time. The parcel post has opened up the doors of
opportunity to YOU. Others are making $20 to $500
a week. Why can’t you? By our method you can
start with $5 and up. .We offer you thirty live,
money-making mail order plans. You can make 95
cents profit of every dollar order. We furnish cir-
culars, printed matter and place your advertising at
lowest rates.' Send 10 cents for complete outfit. Do
it today—Now 1
MAIL DEALERS WHOLESALE HOUSE
517 Dearborn Street	1 Chicago, 111.
RELIABLE, LIVE,
RESPONSIBLE MEN
who can sell real estate can MAKE MORE
than $200 PER MONTH acting as AGENTS
for the sale of our properties in MUSKOGEE
and TAFT, OKLAHOMA. The real coming
country where there are opportunities and
openings for all. Write us to-day, giving
your age and experience, and we will offer
you a FINE PROPOSITION WHICH
WILL MAKE YOU MONEY. Address
REEVES REALTY CO.
Department C
217 Flynn-Ames Bldg. Muskogee, Okla.
Mention
WANTED
500 Negro families (farmers preferred)
to settle on FREE Government Lands in
Chaves County, New Mexico. Blackdom
is a Negro colony. Fertile soil, ideal
climate. No “Jim Crow” Laws. For
information write
JAS. HAROLD COLEMAN
Blackdom	New Mexico
Co&vtcd agents vianted c£e,xijvlfxGAC to Auppftj
tf\4. cj demand fax. aux. fxicjfx cjxade dafflituf
CoaxLa. oUatcdf aIijFca and M^cA fax tfadicA ax
ejentfiemen, ax \£itfiaut addxcAA, 100 fax 50
cents ax 50 fax 25 ccntA. 0utfxt free. oLaxcje
camrruAAian. fj)xc£uaICc texxitaxy. G$ axdexA
fi&ed fixanxjit£y. <l$xite fax AampicA and tcxmA.
cJIfi&iJCauAc of Gxa\Cnln^r £ndianapoixA, $nd
$25.00 PER WEEK
may be made in commissions By parties handling
“History of Negro Soldiers in Spanish-American
War” combined with “History of the Negro Race.”
400 pages, 50 illustrations. Price $1.25 net.
Address:	E. A. JOHNSON
154 Nassau Street
NEW YORK
REGALIA
Race Enterprise
Manufacturing Badges,
Banners and Supplies
for all Fraternal and
Church Societies. Cat-
alog upon request.
CENTRAL REGALIA CO.
Jos. L. Jones, Pres.
N. E. Corner 8th and Plum? Streets, Cincinnati [.Ohio
Ths Cams
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
201
MILES M. WEBB
School of Practical Photography
Terms reasonable. Service efficient.
Three courses : Amateur, intermediate,
professional. Register now.
3519 So. State Street Chicago, III.
Telephone Douglass 6688
The National Teachers’ Agency
An honest and efficient teachers’ agency is absolutely
essential to the best educational results. The vacancy
and the teacher who can best fill it are often many
miles apart and unknown to each other. It is the
business of the teachers’ agency to introduce them
and to bring them into business relations.
Our manager, who has had more than a quarter
of a century's experience -in the training, selection,
placing and supervision of teachers, gives each case
personal attention; consequently, there will be an ex-
tremely small per cent of errors.
If you are prepared to fill a good position or a
better position than you now hold, write us. Many
places will be filled before September 1st.
Our service to school authorities is gratuitous and
confidential. We shall be pleased to recommend
teachers for any grade from the kindergarten to the
university.
B.	F. BOWLES, Manager
2739 Converse Ave., East St. Louis, Illinois
THIS RAZOR IS MADE OF THE FINEST TEMPERED STEEL
ground to the keenest edge and has two American flags
engraved on each blade, also embossed with a pretty
design, with gold on handle. Guaranteed for 10 years.
This razor sells for $3.00 else-where; our price is only
$1.00. Send to-day and know the comfort of the easiest
shaver on earth.
SUPERIOR PRODUCTS CO.. 3710 West Polk Street. Chicago, 1U.
$3000 FOR YOU
' J ’HAT’S the money you should get this year. I mean it. I want County Sales
Exclusive
Territory.
100%
Profit.
us yes
Managers quick, men or women who believe in the square deal, who will go into
partnership with me. No experience needed. My folding Bath Tub has taken the
country by storm. Solves the bathing problem. No plumbing, no water works re-
quired. Full length bath in any room. Folds in small roll, handy as an umbrella. I
tell you its great I GREAT I Rivals $100 bath room. Now listen 1 1 want YOU to
handle your county. I’ll furnish demonstrating tub on liberal plan. I’m positive—abso-
lutely certain—you can get bigger money in a week with me than you ever made in a
month before. 1 KNOW ITl
Two Sales a Day—
$300.00 a Month
"4#
That's wh»t you should get—every month. Needed In every home* badly wanted,
eagerly bought. Modern bathing facilities for all the pooplo. Take the orders right
and left. Quick sales, immense
profits. Look at those men—
lith, Ohio, got 13 orders first
week; Meyers. WIs.. $250 profit first
month; Newton. California. 160 in
hree days. You should do as well. 3
SALES A DAY MEANS *300 ▲ MONTH.
The work is very easy, pleasant,
permanent, fascinating. It means a
business of your own.
Little capital needed. I grant
■ credit—Help you out—Back you up
“—Don’t doubt — Don't hesitate—Don't
l -'■‘-‘hold hack—You cannot lose. My other men are
ilding house*, bank accounts, so can fou. Act then
quick. SEND NO MONEY. Just name on penny post cord
- ■	k-—	for free tub offer. Hustle!
fl. S. Robinson, Pres.,	•■-••tocedo.ohio
Canadian Branch — Walkervllle, Ont.
Mention Thk Crisis
202
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
LET YOUR MONEY EARN A
CLEAR DIVIDEND
An investment in the Turner Building Limited, a company incorporated
to own and construct an office building on Lot 28, Block 13, River Lot 12
and 14, in the business district of the city of Edmonton, Province of Alberta,
Canada, will earn clear profit for you from the commencement of business.
This is not a speculation but an absolute legitimate, safe and profitable
investment showing a clear profit after all estimated expenses have been
paid. The building is already leased to a responsible realty broker of
Edmonton.
A limited number of shares are now offered to the public at $1 per
share. 70% of the total capital has already been arranged with local
Edmonton business men.
The fact that our proposition is centered in the city of Edmonton
needs no further assurance as to the ultimate value of our proposition.
Edmonton today is the fastest growing city on the continent, with a popula-
tion of 75,000 and increasing at the rate of 15,000 annually. Our property
is now worth $10,000 and undoubtedly within a few years will be worth
twice the amount.
Owing to the limited amount of space we are unable to produce here
all of the good qualities of our proposition. We invite you to address the
Turner Building Limited, 102 Brown Building, Edmonton, for further and
complete information or cut out the following coupon and mail at once.
INFORMATION COUPON
Cut out this blank and mail with check, postal or money order or
currency for one dollar for one share which will earn for you a clear profit
from the start and the investment will be continually increasing in value.
..............................1914
Clifford C. Mitchell,
Fiscal Agent, Turner Building, Ltd.,
102 Brown Bldg., P. O. Box 2, Edmonton, Canada.
Dear Sir: Enclosed please find $1 for 1 share of the Turner Building,
Limited.
Also please send without further obligation to me a prospectus of your
company and any further information that may induce me to subscribe
further.
It being understood that I am taking this share upon your representa-
tion that a clear profit will be made from the start.
You agreeing to return the money with 5% interest if the required
amount is not subscribed for within sixty days.
Name ........................................
Occupation .................................. •
Address .....................................
Mention The Ceiizi
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
203
Masterpieces of
Negro Eloquence
Edited by Alice Moore Dunbar.
The one volume that contains the best
speeches of fifty-one of the ablest Negroes of
the United States, England, Africa and France,
from 1818 to 1913. The wonderful eloquence
of the most powerful Negro men and women
of the world is contained in this book. Nothing
more interesting and inspiring has ever been
written.
If you would know of the history of the
race, appreciate the sacrifice for principle,
understand the struggle for liberty, and properly
value the oratorical achievement of the Negro,
you should place this book in your library.
The “Masterpieces of Negro Eloquence” will take you back to 1818, when Prince
Saunders in his fascinating style eloquently pleaded for the abolition of slavery. It
will give you the speech of Henry Highland Garnett, the first Negro ever asked to
deliver a sermon in the United States House of Representatives; the speech of Frederick
Douglass, who in 1852 with unexcelled eloquence demanded at Rochester to know,
“What to the Slave Is the Fourth of July?”; the speech that made Booker Washington
famous; an estimate of Toussaint L’Ouverture, by James McCune Smith, that ranks
with Wendell Phillips’ famous eulogy; Charles M. Langston’s defiance of the Fugitive
Slave Law, delivered in 1859; Judge Ruffin’s famous eulogy of Crispus Attucks, a
speech that should be read by every Negro boy and girl.
These are but a few of the gems culled at random from this great book. The
best of our present generation is well represented.
This is a book that is a library, a reference book and an historical work, an indis-
pensable addition to the library of every intelligent Negro. A book that shows in the
Dest manner the best that the Negro has done.
It is carefully edited, well printed and thoroughly indexed, bound
in red and green silk cloth binding, 512 pages, gold top, uncut pages,
We want every reader of The Crisis to have a copy of this
book. We have set aside 50,000 copies which we are going to sell
to The Crisis readers by allowing them to pay 50 cents down
and 50 cents monthly for four months.	/ The Douglass Pub
Co.. S09 N. 4th St.
Do not delay; sit down immediately, clip this coupon
and send it to us with 50 cents, and a copy will be sent
you by return mail.
THE DOUGLASS PUBLISHING COMPANY
HARRISBURG, PA.
CRISIS Coupon
CUT OUT AND
MAIL NOW
Harrisburg, Pa.
Enclosed find 50c., for
which send me a copy of
The Masterpieces of Negro
Eloquence.'* I promise to pay
50c. each month until $2.50 is
paid. Title of the book to re-
main with you until the sum of
$2.50 is paid.
Address
Mention The Cams
204
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
NOTABLE BOOKS
written by
Members of the Board of Directors
of the
National Association for the Advancement
of Colored People
These books may be obtained from
THE CRISIS, 70 Fifth Avenue, New York
Prices do not include postage. Postage extra.
Jane Addams
DEMOCRACY AND SOCIAL ETHICS
$1.25
THE NEWER IDEALS OF PEACE.. $1.25
THE SJPIRIT OF YOUTH AND THE CITY
STREETS ................... $1.25
TWENTY YEARS AT HULL HOUSE
$1.50
A NEW CONSCIENCE AND AN AN-
CIENT EVIL .................... $1.00
The Macmillan Co.
No one in this country has come closer to the
problems held out by poverty than has Miss Addams.
—Philadelphia Public Ledger.
Thomas Ewing, Jr.
JONATHAN: A Tragedy. Funk and Wag-
nails Co.................................$1.00
The tragedy is imaginative, and in its style and
tone evinces a strong command of poetic diction. It
recalls Byron’s ‘Cain’ in its noble handling of Bible
characters.
—How to know the Books, Philadelphia.
John Haynes Holmes
THE REVOLUTIONARY FUNCTION OF
THE MODERN CHURCH. G. P. Put-
nam’s Sons ....................$1.50
An earnest, rational and illuminating presentation
of practical conclusions as to the social duty of the
church.	—New York Times.
MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE...............
B. W. Huebsch ..............$0.50
Mr. Holmes’s view comes as near offering a solu-
tion of this problem as any that we arc ever likely
to reach.	—Rochester Herald.
W. E. Burghardt DuBois
THE SOULS OF BLACK, FOLK
A. C. McClurg & Co...'..... $1.25
THE QUEST OF THE SILVER FLEECE
A. C. McClurg & Co..........$1.35
JOHN BROWN
George W. Jacobs & Co...... $1.25
THE SUPPRESSION OF THE SLAVE
TRADE—Longmans, Green & Co...$1.50
THE PHILADELPHIA NEGRO
University of Pennsylvania Press.. $2.00
Professor DuBois possesses a command over the
finer qualities of English which greatly enhances the
poignancy and pathos, the yearning and hope of his
terrible indictment.	—The London Academy.
Archibald H. Grimke
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON: The Aboli-
tionist ....................... $1-50
CHARLES SUMNER: The Scholar in Poli-
tics ..........................$1.50
American Reformers Series. Funk and
Wagnalls.
These volumes are written in a clear, straightfor-
ward style, and are admirably adapted for the home
library.
Florence Kelley
MODERN INDUSTRY: In Relation to the
Family, Health, Education, Morality.
Longmans, Green & Co.................$1.00
The writer has been Chief State Factory Inspector
of Illinois, living many years at Hull House and the
Nurses’ Settlement and serving, since 1889, as Secre-
tary of the National Consumers’ League. She sets
forth changing social and industrial conditions seen at
close range, and suggests immediate hopes and plans
related thereto.
Mention Tbi Cusia
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
205
Mary White Ovington
HALF A MAN: The Status of the Negro in
New York. Longmans, Green & Co., $1.00
A sane, wise and sympathetic study.
—Evening Post.
HAZEL: The Story of a Little Colored Girl.
Crisis Publishing Co...................$1.00
Any child, regardless of race or color, would be
interested in the little book.
—Brooklyn Daily Eagle.
William A. Sinclair
THE AFTERMATH OF SLAVERY: A
Study of the Condition and Environment
of the American Negro. Small, May-
nard & Co..............................$1.65
The perusal of this work may be urged upon every
fair minded man.
—Thomas Wentworth Higgmson.
Moorfield Storey
CHARLES SUMNER: American Statesmen
Series. Houghton, Mifflin Co..........$1.25
The majestic devotion of Sumner to the highest
political ideals before and during his long term of
lofty service to freedom in the United States is
fittingly delineated by Mr. Storey.
THE REFORM OF LEGAL PROCEDURE
Yale University Press ................$1.35
Oswald Garrison Villard
JOHN BROWN: A Biography, Fifty Years
After. Houghton, Mifflin Company. .$5.00
I can only say after reading from first to last its
more than 700 pages, that I have never encountered
.anything this side of Gibbon’s ‘Rome’ which has
made me feel more the personal power of a single
-work.
—Thomas Wentworth Higginson.
Charles Edward Russell
THOMAS CHATTERTON: The Marvelous
Boy. Moffat, Yard & Co.....$2.00
LAWLESS WEALTH
B.	W. Dodge & Co............$1.50
SONGS OF DEMOCRACY
Moffat, Yard & Co..........$1.00
WHY I AM A SOCIALIST
The George H. Doran Co.....$0.50
BUSINESS, THE HEART OF THE NA-
TION. John Lane Co.........$0.25
Mr. Russell’s books show him as a great journalist,
a poet and a devoted worker and writer for socialism.
Joel E. Spingarn
THE NEW CRITICISM. Columbia Uni-
versity Press ..................$0.75
THE NEW HESPERIDES, AND OTHER
POEMS. Sturgis & Walton Company
$1.00
The author of The New Hesperides has already
proved himself a critic of a very high order in a
lecture on The New Criticism. We very gladly recog-
nize the many fine qualities which proclaim him to
be a true poet.
—London Academy.
John Garrett Underhill
SPANISH LITERATURE IN TUDOR
ENGLAND. The Macmillan Co....$2.00
A learned and important contribution to the history
of the literary and historical relations between Eng-
land and Spain at the height of Spanish influence and
power.
—Manchester (England) Guardian.
William English Walling
SOCIALISM AS IT IS. The Macmillan Co.,
$2.00
The best book on Socialism by any American, if
not the best book on Socialism in the English langu-
age.
—Boston Herald.
PROGRESSIVISM AND AFTER. The
Macmillan Co....-....................$1.50
The most stimulating and thought-provoking book
on purely economic topics we have ever read.
—Boston Transcript.
Mention The Crisis
206
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
LEGAL DIRECTORY
/Central 104-W
Telephones. {Main 61
HARRY E. DAVIS
Attorney-at-Law	Notary Public
1607 Williamson Building	Cleveland, Ohio
Office L. D. Telephone 3297 Market
Residence L. D. Telephone 5277-M Market
GEORGE A. DOUGLAS
Counselor-at-Law
Rooms 613-614, Metropolitan Building
113 Market St., Cor. Washington, Newark, N. J.
General Practice	Notary Public
WILLIAM R. MORRIS
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
1020 Metropolitan Life Building
Minneapolis	Minn.
BROWN S. SMITH
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Offices: Suite 610, Sykes Block
Minneapolis	Minn.
GEORGE W. MITCHELL
Attorn e y-at-Law
908 Walnut Street
Philadelphia	Pa.
Tel. 5437 Fort Hill	Cable Address, Epben
EDGAR P. BENJAMIN
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
34 School Street	Boston, Mass.
Telephone Connection
W. Ashbie Hawkins	George W. F. McMechen
HAWKINS & McMECHEN
Attorneys-at-Law
21 East Saratoga Street	Baltimore, Md.
Phones: Office, Bell 4059; New 420-M
Residence, New 733-A
THOS. E. PREENE, JR.
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Notary Public
Maloney Block
Youngstown, Ohio
B. F. BOOTH
Attorney-at-Law
57 N. Second Street
Memphis	Tenn.
THOMAS W. HOLMES
Attorn k y-at-Law
43 Decatur Street	A Anita, Georgia
PERSONAL CARDS
Telephone 5277 Morningside
DR. GERTRUDE E. CURTIS
Surgeon Dentist
188 W. 135th Street	New York City
WILLIAM L. BELL
Architect
138J4 Auburn Avenue	Atlanta, Ga.
E. ALDAMA JACKSON
Graduate Institute of Musical Art. Organist and Director
of Music St. Mark’s M. E. Church
Teacher of Theory and Piano
Theory course embraces elementary and advanced
Harmony or Counterpoint.
Private or Class Work
Studio: 30 W. 132d STREET, NEW YORK CITY
J . E . O R M E S
ACCOUNTANT
Audits	Systems
Business information by mail. Open for
engagements July and August
Box 25, Wilberforce University
Wilberforce, O.
Mr. Alfred Elis Du Bois, commercial agent
at Jeremie, Haiti, offers his services for all
kinds of business and exportation and im-
portation between Haiti and the United States.
Telephone 4214 Greeley
BRANIC’S EXPRESS
ANDREW J. BRANIC, Proprietor
Packing and Shipping—Goods Forwarded to All Parts
of the World
Orders by mail or ’phone receive prompt attention.
Trunks stored, 25c. per month.
459 Seventh Avenue	New York
A Trip to Washington this Summer ?
Have your PHOTOGRAPH made by
SCURLOCK
Hundreds of CRISIS readers can tell you how good
Studio
900 U Street, N. W„ Washington, D. C.
Advertising Sales Agents Wanted at Once
Young men and women. Previous experience un-
necessary. Liberal pay while you learn. Permanent
position. Opportunity for advancement. An inde-
pendent income. Brilliant opportunity for trustworthy
young men and women. Vacancies are limited.
Answer immediately. Must have representatives in
every city and town in U. S. where not yet repre-
sented. Act quickly. • Write at ONCE, enclosing 10
cents for full instructions and information. Address
Employment Department.
WATERS BROS.,
97 Wickliffe St.,	Newark, N. J., U. S. A.
Mention The Crisis
A Selected List of Books
These prices do not include postage. Postage extra.
The Quest of the Silver Fleece. (W. E. B. Du Bois)......... $1.35
House Behind the Cedars. (Charles W. Chesnutt).............. 1.50
Hazel. (Mary White Ovington)................................ 1.00
Tiie Autobiography of an Ex-Colored Man. (Anonymous)........	1.20
Lyrics of Lowly Life. (Paul Laurence Dunbar)................ 1.25
The Marrow of Tradition. (Charles W. Chesnutt).............. 1.50
The Sport of the Gods. (Paul Laurence Dunbar) .............. 1.50
Norris Wright Cuney. (Maud Cuney Hare)...................... 1.50
A Narrative of the Negro. (Leila Amos Pendleton)............ 1.50
Souls of Black Folk. (W. E. B. Du Bois)..................... 1.25
Race Adjustment. (Kelly Miller)............................. 2.00
History of the Negro. (B. G. Brawley)....................... 1.25
Half a Man. (Mary White Ovington)........................... 1.00
Mind of Primitive Man. (Franz Boas)......................... 1.50
Aftermath of Slavery. (William Sinclair).................... 1.50
John Brown. (W. E. B. Du Bois).............................. 1.25
Liberia. (Frederick Starr)................................... LOO
Facts of Reconstruction. (John R. Lynch).................... 1.50
Story of the Negro. 2 Volumes. (Booker T. Washington).......	3.00
Masterpieces of Negro Eloquence. (Alice Moore Dunbar, Editor) 2.50
Poems of Paul Laurence Dunbar............................... 2.00
The African Abroad. 2 Volumes. (William H. Ferris).......... 5.00
Afro-American Folksongs. (H. E. Krehbiel)................... 2.00
Out of the House of Bondage. (Kelly Miller)................. 1.50
The Colored Inventor. (Henry E. Baker).........................15
A Child's Story of Dunbar. (Julia L. Henderson)................25
Address
THE CRISIS
70 Fifth Avenue	::	::	New York City
Mention The Crisis
CAPE MAY, N. J.
This magnificent hotel, located in the heart of the most beautiful seashore resort in the world;
replete with every modern improvement, superlative in construction, appointments, service, and refined
patronage. Orchestra daily. Garage, bath houses, tennis, etc., on premises. Special attention given to
ladies and children. Send for booklet.	E. W. DALE, Owner.
PRINTING
To be of value, the printed page must make
its appeal by means of correct
STATIONERY
and must give evidence of careful and artistic
workmanship. The same is true of
ENGRAVING
We Print THE CRISIS
ROBERT N. WOOD, Printing and Engraving
202 EAST 99th STREET	Telephone: Lenox 6667	NEW YORK
Mention Thp. Crisis
The CRISIS
Vol. 8—No. 5	SEPTEMBER, 1914	Whole No. 47
ONE DOLLAR A YEAR
TEN CENTS A COPY
The National Religious Training School
“I cordially commend the school’s interest and needs to all who believe
in the Negro race and in our obligation to help promote its intellectual, moral
and religious uplift.”
—Rev. Dr. Charles H. Parkhurst, New York City.
IT IS MORE THAN A MERE SCHOOL
IT IS A COMMUNITY OF SERVICE AND UPLIFT
Its influence is destined to be felt in all sections of the country in improved
Negro community life wherever our trained workers locate.
Settlement workers, missionaries for home and foreign mission fields, Y. M. C. A.
and Y. W. C. A. secretaries and district nurses receive a comprehensive grasp of their
studies under a Wellesley graduate and experienced co-workers and actual every-day
practice through the school’s SOCIAL SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
We aim also to create a better qualified ministry.
Industrial training, advanced literary branches, business school.
Thirty-two acres; ten modern buildings; healthful location.
We can accommodate a few more earnest, ambitious students.
Communities requiring social workers should write us.
For catalog and detailed information address:
PRESIDENT JAMES E. SHEPARD
National Religious Training School	Durham, N. C.
The school has no endowment fund and must raise a yearly maintenance fund
of $15,000 for running expenses. Won’t you help us this year?
The Cheyney Training School for Teachers
CHEYNEY, PENNSYLVANIA
Under the management of the Society of Friends. Beautifully located,
healthful, well appointed, and within easy reach of a great variety of educa-
tional institutions, public and private, extending from West Chester to
Philadelphia; representing a wide range of educational problems and
practice.
This school offers to young colored men and women who have a reasonable
secondary school preparation, and who earnestly desire to become teachers,
carefully graded courses in academic work, domestic science, domestic art,
manual crafts and agriculture. For teachers of experience and intending
teachers it offers also a six weeks’ summer-school course, extending from
July 1 to August 12. Tuition is free. Board, lodging, heat, light and
laundry privileges are offered for nine months for $100.	1 he charge for
the same during the summer-school course is $15. Write for particulars to
LESLIE PINCKNEY HILL, Principal
Mention The Crisis
THE CRISIS
A RECORD OF THE DARKER RACES
PUBUSHED BY THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE, AT 70 FIFTH AVENUE. NEW YORK CITY
Conducted by
W. E. BURGHARDT DU BOIS
AUGUSTUS GRANVILLE DILL, Business Manager
Contents Copyrighted, 1914, by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People
Contents for September, 1914
PICTURES
COVER. Original drawing. By John Henry Adams.
COLORED INTERNES AND NURSES, GENERAL CITY HOSPITAL, Page
KANSAS CITY, MO................................... 231
ARTICLES
KING COTTON AND THE NEGRO. A Poem. By Jasper Ross. 235
NATIONAL LEAGUE ON URBAN CONDITIONS AMONG NE-
GROES ..................................... 243
HOPE DEFERRED. A Story. By Mrs. Paul Lawrence Dunbar. 238
DON FRANCISCO. By Clarence Bixby..................... 242
DEPARTMENTS
ALONG THE COLOR LINE................................. 215
MEN OF THE MONTH..................................... 221
OPINION.............................................  224
EDITORIAL ........................................... 232
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COL-
ORED PEOPLE ............................... 236
A BOOK AND A PLAY.................................... 246
THE BURDEN .......................................    248
TEN CENTS A COPY; ONE DOLLAR A YEAR
FOREIGN SUBSCRIPTIONS TWENTY-FIVE CENTS EXTRA
RENEWALS: When a subscription blank is attached to this page a renewal of your subscrip-
tion is desired. The date of the expiration of your subscription will be found on the wrapper.
CHANGE OF ADDRESS: The address of a subscriber can be changed as often as desired.
In ordering a change of address, both the old and the new address must be given. Two weeks’
notice is required.
MANUSCRIPTS and drawings relating to colored people are desired. They must be accom-
panied by return postage. If found unavailable they will be returned.
Entered as Second-class Matter in the Post Office at New York, N. Y.
212
THE- CRISIS ADVERTISER
Atlanta University
Is beautifully located in the City of Atlanta,
Ga. The courses of study include High
School, Normal School and College, with
manual training and domestic science. Among
the teachers are graduates of Yale, Harvard,
Dartmouth and Wellesley. Forty-five years
of successful work nave been completed.
Students come from all parts of the South.
Graduates are almost universally successful.
For further information address
President EDWARD T. WARE
ATLANTA, GA.
Knoxville College
Beautiful Situation. Healthful Location.
The Best Moral and Spiritual Environ-
ment. A Splendid Intellectual Atmos-
phere. Noted for Honest and Thorough
Work.
Offers full courses in the following departments:
College, Normal, High School, Grammar School and
Industrial.
Good water, steam heat, electric lights, good drain-
age. Expenses very reasonable.
Opportunity for self-help.
Fall Term Begins September, 1914.
For information address
President R. W. McGRANAHAN
KNOXVILLE, TENN.
The Agricultural and
Mechanical College
Maintained by the govern-
ments of North Carolina and
of the United States. Open
all the year round. For
males only. Fall term be-
gins September i, 1914.
Board, lodging and tuition,
$7 per month. Best oppor-
tunities for Negro youth.
Night school for indigent
but ambitious young men.
For catalog or further infor-
mation, address
PRESIDENT DUDLEY
A. & M. College Greensboro, N. C.
LINCOLN INSTITUTE
Jefferson City, Missouri
Founded by the Negro soldiers of
the 64th and 65th Regiments. Sup-
ported by the State of Missouri.
One of the best-equipped schools in
the country for the education of Negro
boys and girls. Normal, Collegiate,
Agricultural and Industrial Courses.
Normal diplomas carrying with them
the degree B. Pd. are life certificates to
teach in the public schools of Missouri.
The degree A. B. conferred upon those
who complete the collegiate course.
Four teachers of Music: Voice Culture,
Piano, Violin, Band and Orchestra
Practice. Elocution, Athletics, Draw-
ing and Art.
Board $9.50 a month. Tuition $3.00
the year to Missouri students. All
others pay $13.00 a year. Catalog free.
B. F. ALLEN; A. M., LL. D.
President
MOREHOUSE COLLEGE
(Formerly Atlanta Baptist College)
ATLANTA, GA.
College, Academy, Divinity School
An institution famous within recent years
for its emphasis on all sides of manly develop-
ment—the only institution in the far South
devoted solely to the education of Negro
young men.
Graduates given high ranking by greatest
northern universities. Debating, Y. M. C. A.,
athletics, all live features.
For information address
JOHN HOPE, President.
ST. MARY’S SCHOOL
An Episcopal boarding and day school for
girls, under the direction of the Sisters of St
Mary. Address:
THE SISTER-IN-CHARGE
611 N. 43d St.	W. Philadelphia, Pa.
FISK UNIVERSITY
NASHVILLE, TENN.
Founded 1866	C. W. Morrow, Dean
Thorough Literary, Scientific, Educational
and Social Science Courses. Pioneer in
Negro music. Special study in Negro history.
Ideal and sanitary buildings and grounds.
Well-equipped Science building.
Christian home life.
High standards of independent manhood
and womanhood.
Mention The Ckibxb
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
213
1875
Srtatp Agricultural anh fHJerfjantral (College fur Negrueu
Normal, Alabama
1914
A combination hard to beat. A thorough English Education combined zvith a Trade.
WHAT TRADE WOULD YOU LIKE TO TAKE f
Trades for Boys, 12 Trades for Girls, 7 Trades for both sexes, 2
STATE AND UNITED STATES APPROPRIATIONS
Property consists of 182 acres of land, 20 buildings for all purposes, live stock and general
equipment valued at $160,500.
SUMMARY OF OUR GRADUATES-1875-1914
Department	of Academics ....................................................... 1,020
Department	of Agriculture ........................................................  88
Department	of Domestic Economy...................................................... 533
Department	of Mechanic Arts ....................................................... 276
Total ...................................................................... 1.917
WHAT THEY ARE DOING
Principals of district	schools................... 156
Teachers in rural schools........................ 263
Principals of secondary or	high schools........... 12
Teachers in grammar	and	high schools........... 75
Doctors .......................................... 30
Lawyers ........................................... 5
Dentists .......................................... 5
Pharmacists ....................................... 3
Druggists ........................................ 10
Working at Trades ............................... 246
UanKers ........................................... 3
United States Government	Service .............. 25
Jcanes teachers ................................... 7
Directors of book establishments ................. 2
Editors and Journalists........................... 8
Bookkeepers .....................................  15
United States Farm Demonstrators .
Undertakers and Embalmcrs........
Contractors and Builders ......
United States Bureau of Education
Fanners ..........................
Housekeepers .....................
1
5
8
1
326
480
WHAT ARE YOU PREPARING TO DO ?
DEPARTMENTS
Primary, Grammar, High School, College, Mechanic Arts, Agricultural Science, Home Economics, Commercial
Arts, Music and Nurse Training. Catalog free.	. . „„„ „	. xt „
WALTER S. BUCHANAN, President.
HOWARD UNIVERSITY
STEPHEN M. NEWMAN, A.M..D.D., President.
College of Arts and Sciences
A. B. and B. S. Courses
Teachers College
A. B. and B. S. in Pedagogy Courses
School of Manual Arts and Applied
Sciences
Courses in
Engineering	Domestic Arts
Domestic Science	Manual Arts
Commercial College
Stenography, Typewriting, Economics, Etc.
Library School
PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS
School of Theology
School of Medicine
College of Medicine College of Dentistry
College of Pharmacy
School of Law
Conservatory of Music
Academy
Three Preparatory Courses
(Classical, Scientific, Normal)
ALL COURSES BEGIN SEPTEMBER 30, 1914.
For Catalog, Address: HOWARD UNIVERSITY, Washington, D.C.
Mention The Crisis
214
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
STORER COLLEGE
Founded in 1867
Normal, College Preparatory, Music and
Manual Training Courses offered. Co-edu-
cationaL High scholastic ideals. Situated in
historic John Brown Land. Magnificent loca-
tion. Fine library, twelve buildings, good
equipment, thoroughly trained faculty, modern
laboratories, expenses smalL A place for the
earnest, poor young man or woman. No
drones wanted.
Write to Pres. HENRY T. McDONALD,
Harpers Ferry, W. Va.
DOWNINGTOWN INDUSTRIAL
and AGRICULTURAL SCHOOL
DOWNINGTOWN, PA.
Tenth Session begins September 16, 1914
COURSES : Literary; Trades ; Agricul-
ture and Practical Farming; Domestic
Science; Art, etc. For information write
Wm. A. Creditt, Pres., 628 South 19th
St., Philadelphia, Pa. B. C. Burnett,
Sec'y. Industrial School, Downingtown,
Pa.
BEREAN MANUAL TRAINING
AND INDUSTRIAL SCHOOL
which has for its object the training of the head, hand
and heart of our youth thus fitting them for the practical-
requirements of every day life.
Fall Term and Sixteenth Year Opens Tuesday, Oct. 6, 1914
Day and Night Sessions
Four Departments — Domestic Art, Domestic Science,
Industrial Arts, Academic and Musical. Experienced and
competent teachers in charge. Comfortable dormitory
facilities for both girls and boys on the premises. Non-
resident students are required to board in the dormitories.
A well equipped gymnasium for students. An improved
Literary Course for Day Students. Age, sex or previous
training no bar to entrance if the applicant has a good
character. Printing, Plumbing, Upholstery and Wood-
working, special trades for boys. Helpfulness our Object.
Efficiency our Aim. Write now.
MATTHEW ANDERSON, Principal, South College Ave., Philadelphia
OF INTEREST TO VOCAL STUDENTS
TONE-PLACING AND
VOICE- DEVELOPMENT
Points explained, viz.: Breath in
Singing, Trying the Voice, the
Soprano, the Mezzo-Soprano, the
Contralto, Tenor Leggiero or High
Tenor, the Baritone, the Bass,
Parts of the Vocal Apparatus, the
Mouth, the Tongue, Position when
Practising, Position when Singing,
How to Practice, Good Rules for
Singing.
Comment from the world-renowned conductor of
the Paolist Choir of Chicago, HL, whose choir has
just received the first prize awarded at the Singing
Contest held in Paris, on May 25, 1912:
“Dear Mr. Tinsley:
“I take great pleasure in commending your very
useful and succinctly written book on Tone-Placing
and Voice-Development/ Your own appreciation of
the psychology of singing and the fundamental prin-
ciples of the art you have cleverly reduced to a
simple system.	Cordially yours,
“Father WILLIAM J. FINN, C. S. P.,
Director Paulist Choristers of Chicago.”
From “Musical Courier,” N. Y.: “A very practical
little book is Tone-Placing and Voice-Development,’
by Pedro T. Tinsley. It contains some very excellent
material and vocal exercises, and should be in the
hands of all vocal students.”
From “Music News,” Chicago, 111.: “Accordingly
his ‘Practical Method of Singing’ is a most concise
and practical little manual, containing many valuable
vocal exercises. It cannot fail to be helpful to all
ambitious vocal students.”
HELPED HIM GREATLY
“Since I practised your exercises of Tone-Placing
and Voice-Development’ my voice is more resonant
than it has been for years. It seems to me that I
am getting a new voice.” Prof. John T. Layton,
Director Coleridge-Taylor Musical Society, 1722 10th
St., N. W., Washington, D. C.
PRICE $1.00
Address the publisher: Pedro T. Tinsley, 6448 Drexel
Ave., Chicago, 111.; or Clayton F. Sumray, 64 E. Van
Buren St., or Lyon & Healy, Adams and Wabasb
Ave., Chicago, III.
AGENTS WANTED
Others Receive $15 to $65 Weekly!
Why Not You?
Write immediately for full particulars, sample, picture, lit-
erature, etc. Experience unnecessary.
Enclose 10 cents to cover cost.
P. O. Box 2. Edmonton, Alberta, Canada
' c
(Trade Mark)
ANY SPARE TIME?
WHY NOT TURN IT INTO MONEY?
Our agents are making $10.00 per day and more, selling
our new Negro picture, “A Joyful Welcome Into
Heaven,” the finest picture ever produced with the
Negro as a subject. Pleasant agreeable work. Sells
at sight! Write today for particulars, or send 15 cents
stamps or coin for 50 cent sample and agent's terms.
Money back if not satisfied at first glance 1
The Douglas Specialties Co.
Department K.
3548 Vernon Avenue, ::	Chicago, 111.
Mention The Crisis
THE CRISIS
VoL 8—No. 5	SEPTEMBER, 1914	Whole No. 47
SOCIAL UPLIFT
"C'RAJJ'CIS L. HOOPER, a sixteen-year-
old colored boy of Plainfield, N. J., has
invented an invalid's bed and secured a
patent on it.
C[ The First Regimental Band, Uniform
Rank, Knights of Pythias of Nebraska, gave
a band concert at Riverview Park in Omaha
on July 5 in the presence of ten thousand
people. This is the first time that a colored
band has given a concert in one of the city
parks.
Q Colored doctors of California have or-
ganized a state medical association with
headquarters in Los Angeles. The project
of building a hospital is being discussed.
^ It is estimated that only about forty per
cent, of the colored girls in New York City
in need of institutional care are provided
for. A committee of workers is trying to
raise money for the Sojourner Truth House
in order to care for those not provided for.
The seventy-seventh annual report of the
Colored Orphan Asylum at Riverdale-on-
the-Hudson, N. Y., states that there are 235
children now in the institution and that 139
children have been released during the year;
three have died. The year’s e.y^enses were
$74,027.55 with a deficit of $14,406.72 car-
ried over.
<J From all reports, the Negro colony of
Blackdom, N. M., is thriving. The colony,
which was founded by Francis Boyer twelve
years ago, and is now managed by James
II. Coleman, is established upon government
lands which are practically free. There is
a daily mail service, a church, a school, a
pumping plant and a general store.
The most complete and modern field
house in Kansas City, Mo., is the Garrison
Field House and Playground for Negroes.
In this steam-heated building there are
forty-one shower baths, auditoriums for
dancing and indoor sports, and surrounding
it are the play grounds completely fitted up
for outdoor sports of many kinds. The op-
eration of the building and grounds is en-
tirely in the hands of colored workers un-
der the Supervisor of all municipal play-
grounds.
C[ On the Fourth of July St. David’s Fresh
Air and Convalescent Home opened for the
summer season at Silver Lake Park, White
Plains, N. Y. Last summer the Negro
Fresh Air Committee sent 118 people to the
camp for whom they paid $350.00. The
New York Association for the Blind sends
some of their inmates out each summer and
pays for the board of these. Many wealthy
and influential men and women are advisers
and donors to the Home.
<3 The National League on Urban Condi-
tions in New York City offered a prize for
the best examination in elementary econom-
ics and sociology and the best review of De-
vine’s “Misery and It’s Causes.” Miss
Madree Penn of Howard University received
the first prize of $50 and Maynard.H. Jones
of Morehouse College was awarded the sec-
ond prize of $25. Virginia Union Univer-
sity was the other school to compete.
A twelve-year-old colored girl waved a
train down because she saw “something
216
THE CRISIS
FOURTH OF JULY AT FALL RIVER, MASS.
funny” on the track. The heat had caused
a “sun kink” on the rail and the child's ac-
tion probably averted a serious wreck.
The Indianapolis Y. M. C. A. which went
into its new building in July, 1913, has had
a successful year. There are eight hundred
members in the men's department and 175
in the boys' department. The educational
and physical departments have been largely
attended.
<j Many colored women of Boston are en-
gaged in successful businesses. They have
grocery stores, dressmaking and tailoring es-
tablishments, boarding houses, etc.
CJ The Baltimore Colored Man recently pub-
lished a special Negro Press Association
number of sixteen pages.
Q The colored people of Fall River, Mass.,
participated in the Fourth of July parade
with the float pictured here. The News, a
local white paper, said: “The mottoes on
the colored men’s floats reminded the thou-
sands who read them tha't from ‘King
Street, Boston,' up to the present time the
Negro has been an heroic sharer in our na-
tional life.” The Colored Men’s Association
marched in front of the float.
A colored porter was killed on the Illinois
Central railroad at New Orleans by bandits,
while defending the passengers.
<J The publishing house of the Colored
Methodist Episcopal Church will be moved
from Jackson, Tenn., to Birmingham, Ala.
Q Arnold Trottman, a colored man who
holds a medal for life saving from the Royal
Humane Society of London, rescued a Scan-
dinavian from drowning in the Delaware
river.
C| The colored ferryman saved the lives of
three white persons whose automobile ran
off of Lamb’s Ferry barge in Elizabeth City,
N. C.
The town of Okmulgee, Okla., with a
colored population of 4,000 in the whole
population of 10,000, has sixteen colored
professional men and more than thirty-one
business enterprises. Most of the colored
people own their homes and rent much prop-
erty to the white people.
EDUCATION
r I ''HE National Baptist Theological Semi-
nary will be located in Memphis, Tenn.
-C| The colored men’s branch of the Y. M.
C.	A. held an interesting summer school,
July 8-22, -at Arundel-on-the-Bay, Md., in-
cluding instruction in the various branches
of the Y. M. £. A. work.
Blyden Yates, a colored boy, received the
Bachelor’s degree from the University of
Kansas at the age of eighteen years.
^ An authoritative statement sent out from
Tuskegee says:
“Some months ago, Mr. Julius Rosenwald
provided sufficient money with which to
erect six rural school houses in the South on
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
217
condition that the people raised as much
money as he gave and even more if possible.
The experiment proved so successful that
Mr. Rosenwald was pleased and has ar-
ranged for a still larger number of rural
school houses to be built on the same plan.
“ The plans have not as yet been made
as to the exact location of the school houses
nor as to the number of school houses that
will be attempted to be built each year. These
details are being worked out now, but Mr.
Rosenwald has given those in charge of the
matter of building school houses wide au-
thority to exercise their judgment as to the
number and location of school houses. As
soon as a definite and comprehensive plan
has been worked out, it will be placed before
Mr. Rosenwald with the view of giving it to
the public later on.
“In working out this scheme especial care
will be used to see that in trying to help the
various rural communities, the public school
authorities are not relieved of doing their
special duty of supporting the public school;
in fact, the plan is to so use the money
given by Mr. Rosenwald as to induce the
public school authorities to give more largely
for school house erection and extension of
school terms.”
CJ Joseph Welsh, one of the four colored
students in the graduating class of one hun-
dred and twenty from the Montclair (N. J.)
High School, received a scholarship of $120.
Mr. Welsh is a married man and supports a
family.
CJ John F. Williams, a colored student of
the New Haven (Conn.) High School has
made a brilliant record in debating. He was
the only colored boy in a class of 470 stu-
dents and has been appointed President of
the triple debating union of the Meriden,
Middletown and New Haven High Schools.
He has passed the examinations at Yale and
will enter the Sheffield Scientific School in
the fall.
CJ Miss Sarah M. Jones, a colored teacher
of Sacramento, Cal., has resigned after
thirty-five years of service. Miss Jones has
been principal in one of the large public
schools, with colored and white pupils, for
twenty years.
C[ Successful summer schools have been held
at Tuskegee, the State School at Orangeburg,
S. C., the Nashville Normal, Wilberforce
and elsewhere. The school at Wilberforce
was unusually enjoyable and instructive.
James Vernon Herring, the art instructor,
held a very interesting exhibit of his land-
scapes; F. J. Work and his-chorus gave se-
lections from the Elijah, and Dr. W. E. B.
Du Bois lectured on Industry, Money and
Socialism. Dean L. B. Moore of Howard
was director.
MUSIC AND ART
A T the annual Musical Festival of the
Litchfield County Choral Union, which
was given early in June at Norfolk, Conn.,
a new orchestral rhapsody by the late S.
Coleridge-Taylor had its initial hearing, be-
sides Jean Sibelius* new “Rondo of the
Waves.” The later was conducted by Fin-
land’s great composer, who came to conduct
his work at the festival.
CJ At the thirteenth Spring Festival of the
Keene Chorus Club of Keene, N. H., Coler-
idge-Tayloris “Tale of Old Japan” was the
choral work for the opening performance.
<J Miss Kitty Cheatham, the American dis-
euse of southern birth, who again appeared
before American audiences this year, with
the New York Philharmonic Society and the
Philadelphia Orchestra, and before a number
of the greater universities, tells in Musical
America of her recent southern tour and
particularly of her visit to Fisk University.
Miss Cheatham spoke to the students on the
value of the Negro spirituals, sang “Swing
Low, Sweet Chariot,” and recited poems by
Paul Lawrence Dunbar. Of the singing by
the Fisk students she says: “No one who
has not heard it can ever imagine the effect.
It came from their hearts and was a rare
moment. I have never heard anything like
it and shall always remember it as an excep-
tional experience.”
While in Nashville, Miss Cheatam was vis-
ited by the late Mrs. Ella Shppperd Moore,
the pianist of the original Fisk Jubilee
Singers.
€j[ Mr. Roland Hayes, tenor, was heard at a
musical given by the Green Acre Confer-
ence on July 29. Other artists of color who
appeared on the program were Miss C. Adel-
phi Boger, contralto; Mr. Clarence C. White,
violinist, assisted by Mr. Charles W. Harris,
accompanist.
<3 A late publication is Andrew Wilkinson’s
“Plantation Stories of Old Louisiana.” The
purpose of the work, it is claimed, is to as-
sist in preserving the Negro Folk Lore of
America.
218
THE CRISIS
MEETINGS
'T'HE National Negro Business League
held its fifteenth annual session at
Muskogee, Okla., August 19-21.
CJ The annual session of the Grand Foun-
tain, U. O. T. R., will convene in Richmond,
Va., on September 8.
The National Alliance of Postal Clerks
held its second annual session at St. Louis,
Mo., on August 6, 7 and 8.
CJ The National Baptist Convention will
meet in Philadelphia from September 9 to
15.
^ Several hundred delegates attended the
National Negro Civic League at Kansas
City, Mo., on August 3.
CJ The National Association of Colored
Women’s Clubs met at Wilberforce, Ohio,
August 4-8. There were four hundred dele-
gates and visitors, among them Zona Gale,
the English author. Ohio newspapers sent
special representatives.
CJ The annual convention of the Northeast-
ern Federation of Colored Women’s Clubs
convened in New Bedford, Mass., on July
22. The New Bedford Home for Aged is
under the direction of the Woman’s Loyal
Union of that city.
CJ Masons from all over the country met in
Pittsburg, Pa., in July.
CJ The seventh annual convention of the Na-
tional Independent Political League is to be
held in New York City, September 7-9.
Correspondence relative thereto should be
addressed to Rev. Byron Gunner, Hillburn,
N. Y., or to Mr. W. M. Trotter, 49 Cornhill,
Boston, Mass.
-PERSONAL
DR. CHARLES H. ROBERTS of New
York will speak on the subject “The
Teeth of the American Negro” at the sixth
International Dental Congress which meets
at London in August.
CJ A. B. Johnson, the only colored employee
of a hotel at Far Rockaway, N. Y., is night
clerk with white subordinates.
CJ E. J. Graham, Jr., a colored lawyer, has
been elected Justice of the Peace for Clay
District, Wheeling, W. Va., and Thomas
Williams, another colored man, has been
elected Constable in the same district.
CJ Prince Joseph Wolugembe, of an old and
powerful house of full-blooded African
rulers, is expected to visit New York soon.
Prince Wolugembe is a cousin to King Daudi
Chua of Uganda. When he arrives a recep-
tion in his honor will be held by Cardinal
Farley.
CJ Mrs. N. F. Mossell, a colored woman of
Philadelphia, has been appointed as one of
the speakers in the Woman’s Suffrage Cam-
paign to be carried on in the State of Penn-
sylvania, by the Pennsylvania Suffrage As-
sociation. The governor also appointed Mrs.
Mossell as delegate to the National Civic
Movement Convention in Kansas City, Mo.
CJ George W. Carver, Director of the De-
partment of Research and the Experiment
Station at Tuskegee Institute, has been ap-
pointed food and drug inspector under the
laws of Alabama.
CJ Mrs. Ella Sheppard Moore, one of the
original Fisk Jubilee Singers, died in Nash-
ville, Tenn., in June. Up to a short time
before her death Mrs. Moore was very active
in keeping up interest in the Jubilee songs
in colored schools. On June 3 she was the
commencement speaker at Trinity School in
Athens, Ala., and sang one of the Jubilee
songs.
CJ William Pearl Holland of LaRue, Ohio,
a colored printer, won the first prize for
efficiency in type-setting and composition at
the recent meeting of the International Ty-
pographical Union in Zanesville, Ohio. The
prize was a trip to the Panama Exposition
with all expenses paid.
CJ Mrs. Elizabeth Dupree, the wife of Col.
William H. Dupree, died in Boston, July 3.
FOREIGN
r I ''HE Honorable H. I. C. Brown, the col-
ored Registrar of the Supreme Court
of Jamaica, has been appointed to act as
Judge of the Kingston Court. Another col-
ored man, Dr. Lanson Gifford, has been ap-
pointed to act as Superintending Medical
Officer and Chairman of the Quarantine
Board of Kingston, and Chairman of the
Board of Health.
CJ H. C. Rolins, a colored man of Kingston,
Jamaica, was graduated in July from che
University of Edinburgh with the degree of
M.	B. C. H. B.
THE COURTS
y ICTORIA POINDEXTER, an aged col-
* ored woman of Franklin Co., Va., who
can neither read nor write, borrowed $150
from J. P. Buckner, a white man and signed,
in her ignorance, a deed of bargain and sale
conveying her property to Buckner for
$1,000. The property was worth $2,000 and
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
219
the woman had refused an offer made by
Buckner of $1,500 for it. The court gave a
verdict to the effect that the deed was valid
and imposed the cost of the case upon the
old woman.
The State Public Utility Commission has
sent a letter to the Illinois Central Railroad
Company saying that there must be no sep-
arate cars in Illinois for white and colored
passengers. Discrimination had been com-
plained of to the governor.
<1 Alexander Waller, a colored man of Al-
bany, N. Y., was awarded $100 damages be-
cause a saloon keeper wanted to charge him
a dollar for a drink.
CJ A case was recently tried in the Juvenile
Court of Washington, D. C., concern-
ing a white woman who is now married to a
colored man but has a son by a former white
husband. Attempts were made to find that
this boy did not have a proper home, but
this could not be verified and the colored
step-father said that he was able and willing
to take care of the boy, as he had been do-
ing. Finally, because of some rumored il-
licit relation of the boy’s mother with a col-
ored man years before, in Virginia, the child
was taken from her and committed to the
Board of Children’s Guardians.
The Louisville and Nashville Railroad
Company has been fined $500 in the Chris-
tian County (Ky.) circuit court for failing
to provide equal accommodations for white
and colored passengers.
q The United States Supreme Court upheld
the decision of the Tennessee Supreme Court
that ex-slaves or colored people born during
slavery, have no right to inherit from each
other.
Through the efforts of the Baltimore
Branch of the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People, the indict-
ment against James Jenkins for violating
the separate car law by refusing to take a
seat in a coach set aside for colored people
on the Washington, Baltimore and Annapo-
lis Railroad, was thrown out in the criminal
court.
THE GHETTO
A SEGREGATION ordinance has been
introduced into the City Council of
Birmingham, Ala.
€J The Howard High School of Wilming-
ton, Del., was refused the use of the Play-
house, 1 lie largest theatre in the city, by the
local managers and only succeeded in pro-
curing it by appealing to William A. Brady,
the New York manager.
q A mob of a thousand white people bom-
barded the newly purchased home of Mrs.
M. E. Montague, a colored woman, in a
white block in Philadelphia; They used
bricks, stones and firearms. Several of the
leaders of tlie mob were arrested.
Q John G. Holton, a colored man, took tlie
examination for the Philadelphia Fire De-
partment, made an average of 82.7 and was
I laced eighteenth on the list of eligibles. He
was sent for to be sworn in and rejected
because he was colored with the excuse that
the white men would refuse to work with
him.
<3 In the town of Nogales, Ariz., three col-
ored troops of cavalry are stationed and
many of the soldiers’ families live in the
town; there are also several large property
owners among the colored people. The col-
ored children of this town have absolutely
no school to attend as the state law requires
separaie schools for white and colored chil-
dren and the town authorities refuse to fur-
nish a school or a teacher, claiming that
there are not enough colored children to .jus-
tify the expense.
q It is said that the Southern Pacific Steam-
ship Company, New Orleans, which has al-
ways used colored labor to good advantage,
is now placing foreigners in the place of the
colored men.
*3 Lillian Spuarlock, a ten-year-old colored
child, was turned away from the Sherman
School playground in Cincinnati, Ohio,
where she had been accustomed to play, on
account of color.
q The authorities of the Fresh Air Camp
of Montgomery, Ala., threatened to bar
colored people from the camp because they
were not contributing sufficiently to its sup-
port. The Dexter Avenue Baptist Church
in that place raised $25 at the first collec-
tion for this purpose and promises a small
donation every month.
Q Certain organizations of white citizeus
are protesting because colored citizens are
permitted to visit the Overton Park and Zoo
in Memphis, Tenn., one day a week.
<3 Representative Frank Park, of Georgia,
has introduced a bill into the House making
it unlawful for commissions in the Army
or Navy to be granted to colored people un-
der any circumstances.
<3 A colored socialist speaking at Rosephine,
La., was warned by the agents of the Long-
220
THE CRISIS
Bell Lumber Company to leave the place if
he cared to live. When a protest was made
the County Attorney said that he would
never prosecute any white man for running
a Negro out of town.
<J Mrs. Ethel Clark, a colored woman of
Boston, is in the hospital at St. Louis, Mo.,
in a serious condition as a result of assault
by a conductor on a trolley car. Being un-
familiar with the transfer system of St.
Louis, Airs. Clark asked for a transfer upon
the wrong line. The conductor swore and
refused her the transfer. When she pro-
tested against his language and manner and
took his number he threw her from the car.
He was arrested.
CRIME
f I ''HE following colored men have been
lynched since the last report : At Lake
Cormorant, Aliss., James Bailey, accused of
stealing two mules. At Elloree, S. C., Rosa
Carson, a woman, accused of beating a
white child to death. Near Robinsonville,
Aliss., James Robinson, accused of implica-
tion in the murder of a white man. Near
Alanack, Ala., an unidentified Negro, accused
of running amuck among the farms of that
section. At Shaw, Miss., Jennie Collins, who
refused to allow a mob to search her house.
At Eufala, Okla., Crockett Williams,
charged with the murder of an Indian.
A number of militiamen at Gordonsville,
Va., attempted to break into the jail and
lynch Janies Addison, a half-witted colored
man, who had attacked a certain white mil-
itiaman. United Stales troops prevented
the crime.
<j Sheriff Jones of Bay Springs, Aliss., pre-
vented a mob from lynching a colored man,
Alose' Johnson, whom they charged with
robbing a pay car. One colored man has
been lynched for this offense.
€J A crowd of two hundred armed men sur-
rounded the jail at Harriston City, Pa.,
where a colored man accused of assault upon
a white girl was imprisoned. The militia
arrived in time to prevent violence.
Joseph Dixon, a colored man, went into
a saloon in Cairo, 111., and brandished a
knife. The white bartender, Henry Weakley,
shot Dixon, who died from the wound sev-
eral hours later. Dixon claimed that he was
only playing with the bartender as he had
often done before. At the coroner’s inquest,
Weakley was exonerated on the plea of self-
defense.
The death sentence of Luther Tyler, a
young colored man of Goochland County,
Va., accused of assaulting a white woman,
has been commuted to life imprisonment be-
cause of new evidence which has aroused ser-
ious doubt as to the identity of the prisoner.
^ William Miller, a young colored man of
Staunton, Va., lias been sentenced to seven
years imprisonment, charged with assault
upon a white woman.
<1 Police Detective Fred L. Kreugle of
Richmond, Va., has been discharged from
the service for killing Samuel Thomason, a
colored man, without cause.
<1 Robert Harris, who was charged with
murder in La Junta, Cal., has been ac-
quitted. Tn an attempt to protect his father
and mother, lie killed two policemen who
invaded their home without cause in 1911.
In a fight between the two boys in Macon.
Ga., Alex Nottingham, a white boy, killed
Robert Aliller, a fifteen-year-old colored boy,
bv stabbing him through the heart. There
is no record of an arrest in the white papers.
One simply states “The lad deeply regretted
the Negro’s death.”
CJ Edward Alarshall, the white man who at-
tempted some time ago to rob the colored
Atlanta, Georgia, Savings Bank, has been
sentenced to three years in the penitentiary.
Clara Hauptmann, a seven-year-old white
child of Seven Stars, N. J., claimed that she
was attacked in a swamp near her home by
a Negro. The police, however, doubt her
story; John Wright, a colored man, was ar-
rested. He gave an accurate description of
the child, said that she saw him at a dis-
tance and ran away, frightened. He denies
having offered her any violence, and the child
says that he was not the man. Another col-
ored man was arrested, but he gave a satis-
factory account of himself.
<1 William Parker, a colored man, was bad-
ly beaten and lied with ropes because lie sat
in a car leaving Alexandria, Aid., beside a
white woman. The white woman was seated
in one of the seats set apart for colored
passengers. Parker, who denied having or
nourishing a pistol, was immediately taken
to jail.
•J Two white men of Guthrie, Okla., have
been arrested charged with holding colored
boys in peonage. One of the boys escaped
recently and informed the officers; three
other boys who attempted to escape were
captured and received beatings that may re-
sult fatally.
A STUDENT OF MUSIC
A MOXG the many recent commencement
^ exercises, none was more unique or
more gratifying- from a race standpoint,
than those which marked the distinguished
graduation of Mrs. Elnora S. Manson from
the Cosmopolitan School of Music and Dra-
matic Art in Chicago. The exercises were
held in the Auditorium Building ou June 10,
and the brilliant program given on that oc-
casion was presented by the members of en-
semble department and repertoire classes in
compliment to Mrs. Manson, whose record in
the Academic Department of the school is a
matter of pride to students and teachers
alike.
Mrs. Manson was the only student of her
race in the entire school, and the splendid
spirit of appreciation of her shown by fac-
ulty and school is worthy of note. Mr.
Henry Eames, director of the Ensemble De-
partment, spoke in warm commendation of
the quality of Mrs. Mansoms work, of her
literary ability, of her patient persistence in
research and her adherence to the highest
ideals along all lines of endeavor. He men-
tioned specially the last piece of work dons
by Mrs. Manson, before graduation. This
work, •'•'The Development of the Orchestra.'*1
has received much praise from musical cri-
tics and is now in the hands of Frederic-
Stock, conductor of the Chicago Symphony
Orchestra. The Music Xetcs in its report of
the graduation exercises says: ‘'‘Mrs. Man-
son well deserves the praise and honor be-
stowed upon her on this occasion. She is a
deep student and possesses extraordinary
talent, not only along musical lines, but in
literature as well. She is a great credit to
this school.”
Mrs. Manson received her first impetus in
this line of musical research when she was
affiliated with the Choral Study Club of
Chicago about eight years ago. Mr. Pedro
Tinsley, then director of the club, invited
Mrs. Manson to give some talks on the works
rendered by the club. Her first attempt was
the cantata, “The Seven Last Words of
Christ/'* by Theodore Dubois, and later on
she gave a musical analysis of the Bon-Bon
Suite by S. Coleridge Taylor. These efforts
were so successful that Mrs. Manson determ-
ined to give herself entirely to the work of
lecture-recitals. By the friendly advice of
Dr. Frank Gunsaulus and Miss Anne Shaw
Falkner, the distinguished interpreter of or-
chestral works, Mrs. Manson entered the
school from which, after six years of unre-
mitting labor, she now emerges with such
notable honors.
222
THE CRISIS
Mrs. Manson is an Ohio girl, the daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. Charles F. Smith. For
years she has lived in Chicago, the wife of
Mr. David Manson, a representative citizen
who has made for himself a remarkable
place in the iron and steel business of the
city.
AN ANTHROPOLOGIST.
T N the death of Dr. Alexander F. Cham-
berlain the Negro race loses an honest
man who did not
consider that science
must be made the
handmaiden of race
prejudice despite the
facts.
Dr. Chamberlain
was born in England
January 12,	1865.
He was a graduate
of Toronto Univer-
sity and took his Ph.
D.	at Clark Univer-
sity, Worcester, Mas-
sachusetts, in 1892.
He was a member of
many learned socie-
ties all over the
world and a careful
student of anthrop-
ology. He is known
to eolored people by
his excellent article
on the contributions
of the Negro race to
civilization, first pub-
lished in the Journal
of Race Develop-
ment. This article will soon be republished
by the National Association for the Advance-
ment of Colored People and should be in the
hands of every colored person in the United
States and every person who is unafraid of
the truth.
Dr. Chamberlain died in the midst of his
work at the early age of forty-eight.
A JOURNALIST.
ATHAN1EL B. DODSON, of Brooklyn,
is the son of the late Armstead and
Lucy Carnard Dodson, of Boydton, Va. He
was reared on his father’s farm and received
his early education at the New Liberty and
the Shiloah public schools of Mecklenburg
County, taught by the late Southall Townes
and James A. Gayles, respectively.
After finishing at the latter school be
taught in 1886-7. In the spring of 1887 he
came to Brooklyn and was employed to run
an elevator in the old Pierrepont House,
which was at the time the leading hotel in
Brooklyn. In the fall and winter, from 1887
to 1889 he attended the Boydton, Va., In-
stitute at his home, returning to his same po-
sition at the Pierrepont House during his
vacation until his graduation from the Boyd-
ton Institute with the class of ’89.
Having the desire
to obtain a higher
education he matric-
ulated for the senior
class at Wayland
Seminary in Wash-
ington (now the Vir-
ginia Union Univer-
sity, Richmond, Va.),
where he graduated
in 1891 as class salu-
tatorian. He con-
tinued his studies in
the academic depart-
ment at Wayland
for a year and re-
turned to Brooklyn
and became night
clerk in the Pierre-
pont House.
In 1895-96 Mr.
Dodson was engaged
with a company of
men as manager in
the grocery business
in Brooklyn. After
giving up this busi-
ness he found em-
ployment	at	the American Press Association,
New	York,	in	1897,	as general inside
messenger, telephone operator and con-
fidential man to the president. He ren-
dered faithful and valuable service in
this work. In 1907 he suggested to the pres-
ident of the American Press Association the
idea of starting a weekly plate service for
the use of papers published by the colored
people. The late Major Orlando J. Smith,
founder and president of the firm until his
death in the fall of 1908, took kindly to the
suggestion of Mr. Dodson and sent for Mr.
Thomas T. Fortune, editor of the New York
Age, with whom he discussed the matter at
length.
No action, however, was taken at the time
but Mr. Dodson kept the matter prominently
THE LATE DR. A. F. CHAMBERLAIN.
MEN OF THE MONTH
223
MR. N. B. DODSON.
before tlie firm. After the death of Major
Smith, the matter was again taken up with
Mr. Court land Smith who became the Gen-
eral Manager of the firm upon the death of
his father. Mr. Courtland Smith gave his
consent to the proposition and on January
4, 1909, Mr. Dodson started the Afro-Amer-
ican Page, a six-column illustrated weekly
news service of which he is still the editor
and manager.
Other positions of trust and responsibility
held by Mr. Dodson are, Chairman of the
Executive Committee of the National Negro
Press Association, member of the Executive
Committee of the Brooklyn Branch of the
National Association for the Advancement of
Colored People and President of the New
England Baptist Sunday School Conventipn.
Mr. Dodson has a wife and six children.
FAITHFUL
LEM PAGE died recently in Toledo,
Ohio. He was for thirty-three years
caretaker for the Merchants National Bank.
The following paragraphs, written by the
bank president’s son, appeared in a local
paper:
“It was never mine to know an honester
man, either white or colored, nor one in
whom the cardinal virtues of simplicity and
truth were more sacred and inviolate. He
was a man of the most kindly impulses, and
to him no sacrifice was ever too great when
the welfare or pleasure of others was at
stake. . . .
“When bowed by the weight of years, and
his weary footsteps told the mute but touch-
ing story of a life worn by hardships and
exacting toil, the radiant smile of sincerity
ar.d good cheer never forsook his counte-
nance, and he passed from earth to whatever
reward awaits those who have done far more
for ottiers than they in turn seemed willing
to do for him. . . .
“The deceased was a veteran of the Civil
War. He was honorably discharged from
service in the Union Army by order of the
authorities at Washington, in 1865. At the
outbreak of the rebellion he joined a Missis-
sippi regiment of colored volunteers and
fought in several desperate conflicts wherein
national renown won its highest record and
victory was achieved at the cost of many
1 recious lives. . . .
“Poor, honest, faithful, valiant Page. I
knew him well, and his memory will ever re-
main an inspiration, as though from some
cherished legend of yore, to all honest men
who were thus so happily favored.”
THE LATE CLEM PAGE.
THE LAZY NEGRO
modern African Mr. E. D. Morrell, an
development English student of West
African affairs has a
striking paper in the Nineteenth Century
and After from which we quote the follow-
ing passages:
“Experience suggests that there is some
indestructible element in Negro blood: that
the Negro can survive even the slave trade
and a Leopold the Second. ‘A great race/
as Mary Kingsley said, ‘not destined to pass
off the stage of human affairs.’ And, too,
history has thrown into strong relief a sin-
gular power inherent to this race. No white
people can interfere with the Negro and
shake him off again. He clings, somehow:
just as his country, once entered, beckons.
The mere haunting of the Western Coasts of
Africa with ships, and the organization,
mainly from their decks, of slave hunts and
barterings, has profoundly affected mankind.
To speak only of positive, tangible effects
which may be seen, it has resulted in the
presence to-day of twenty-four and a half
millions of Negroes and Negroids in the
New World. It'has created what is, per-
haps, the most formidable social problem
which any white people has to face. It has
brought into existence one of the world’s
greatest industries—the cotton trade. * • •
“The African peoples are being whirled
along at an incredible speed into the un-
charted spaces of the future. The European
Powers which have the reins in hand are
finding themselves compelled to handle with
embarrassing precipitancy problems which,
in Europe, took several centuries to mature.
“Of these problems, one surpasses all the
rest in fundamental significance. Is the
economic future, and, consequently, the ra-
cial future, of the tropical African native
to be one of dependence or independence?
In other words, is he to exploit the riches of
the soil and cultivate the land under liis own
national systems, or is the white man to be-
come the exploiter and the African the hired
laborer (or the slave) of the more mentally
advanced European? Economic in its es-
sence, the problem is, nevertheless, for the
white over-lords of the African tropics, a
problem not of economics only, but of mor-
ality and statesmanship in the true meaning
of those much abused terms. For the Afri-
can everything is involved in the answer to
that question. For him the problem is the
spinal column of the present and of the
time to be. The free usage and enjoyment
of his land; the preservation of his polity,
his social life; his moral, material, and spir-
itual development; the part which he is to
play in the world under the new dispensa-
tion—all are bound up in its solution.
“A widespread, rooted fallacy may induce
the reply that the native of Africa is himself
incapable of developing his land. It will he
argued that he possesses neither the requi-
site capital nor the requisite brains, nor the
requisite energy. Under cover of that pop-
ular fallacy, white exploiters of human labor
have committed great crimes and great er-
rors in Africa, as detestable as they are
stupid. • • •
“Not only is trade the breath in the nos-
trils of the West African races, but the
wojld is more and more indebted to them on
that very score. Export industries of in-
creasing value to white mankind have sprung
up in West Africa which the West African
has himself created and which he prosecutes
in co-operative fashion without the assist-
ance of European capital, except in so far
as it is indirectly utilized.
“The most considerable of these native in-
dustries at present is the exploitation of the
oil-palm. * • •
“Towards the close of the eighteenth cen-
tury, when the slave-trade was smitten with
OPINION
225
impending dissolution, it occurred to a firm
of British merchants to obtain some of the
oil from the natives and ship it home. Its
value was at once recognized. A regular ex-
port industry began, the natives responding
with alacrity to the demand. With the dis-
appearance of the slave-trade the industry
grew rapidly. A return issued through the
House of Commons in 1845 showed that the
quantity of palm-oil exported from West
Africa to the United Kingdom had increased
from 283 tons in 1800 to 5,300 tons in 1820;
15,000	tons in 1840, and 25,000 tons in 1845.
In 1865 the export had grown to 35,000 tons.
About that time another British merchant
firm conceived the idea of shipping home the
nuts as well as the oil contained in the outer
covering. A demand immediately arose.
Since then the palm-oil and palm-kernel oil
industry has increased in enormous propor-
tions. Liverpool, which is the European im-
port centre for palm-oil, as Hamburg is for
palm-kernels, imported SO,000 tons of oil
last year and 23,826 tons of kernels. Ham-
burg imported no less than 256,618 tons of
kernels. In the last two years the natives
of British West Africa have produced palm-
oil and kernels to the sterling value of just
under ten millions, and the natives of West
Africa under German and French protec-
tion have produced just under two millions
sterling of these articles. In the last two
years, then, European and American indus-
tries have been indebted to the West African
free producer for 12,000,0001. of this partic-
ular raw material alone. This export has
demanded, in turn, a corresponding increas-
ed output of manufactured goods to pay for
it, thus benefiting other industries in Europe
and America.
“Here then is a striking object-lesson of
what the West African native is capable,
working as a trader and a free man.
“We have heard a good deal about slave-
grown cocoa. But how many Englishmen
are acquainted with the romance of free-
grown cocoa in one of their own West Af-
rican dependencies? How many English-
men are aware that their African protected
subjects in the Gold Coast and Ashanti,
working for themselves on their own nation-
al lands, have succeeded, in a phenomenally
short space of time, in placing that British
Colony and Protectorate actually at the head
of the cocoa-exporting countries of the
world? Yet such is the fact, and the story
should go far to convince even the most ob-
stinate skeptic of the Negro’s capabilities
that in a natural setting of circumstances
and conditions this maligned race can ac-
complish wonders, provided it is given a
chance. • • *
“In 1890 the Gold Coast Administration
made up for many political errors by a
most excellent economic measure. It cre-
ated an agricultural and botanical station in
a carefully selected spot and distributed
young plants and pods of the cocoa tree
gratuitously. Four years later the native
farmers produced 20,312 pounds of cocoa,
valued at £547. By 1900 the plantations
yielded 1,200,794 pounds, valued at £27,280.
By 1904 the value of the output was £200,-
025. In 1908 it rose to £540,821. Last year
the Gold Coast headed the list of cocoa-pro-
ducing countries with an export of 88,987,-
324 pounds, valued at £1,613,468. • • •
“Let us look into it a little more closely
to appreciate how astonishing is the feat of
the small cultivator, the unlettered African
farmer. In most of the cocoa-producing
countries everything which white brains and
capital could do to bring the industry to its
highest state of development and perfection
has been done. • • •
“The Gold Coast farmer had no capital,
no machinery, no up-to-date appliances, no
railways, no transport animals, few roads.
Armed with nothing better than an axe and
a machete, he attacked the mighty virgin
forest. He smote it this way and that, carv-
ing from its shady depths vast clearings.
Wielding a locally made hoe—his one agri-
cultural implement—he covered those clear-
ings with cocoa-farms, and in some parts of
the colony is continuing the process with
such vigor that, in his energy (this lazy
African!), he is endangering the future by
too wholesale felling, and will have to be re-
strained, in bis own and the general public
interest, by tactful legislation. He has rolled
his casks full of beaus to the sea for miles
and miles; or carried them on his solid
cranium. To-day the homeward-bound liner
pitches uncomfortably for hour after hour in
the trough of the sea off the low-lying palm-
fringed shore dotted with its old-time castles
of grey stone, while lighters and canoes,
crammed with the product of this free and
honorable labor, rush through the serf to
greet her, manned by the chanting boatmen
whose muscles ripple beneath their glossy
skin as they dig their three-pronged paddles
into the curling waves. And, with all his
226
THE CRISIS
haudicaps, the despised African has beaten
all his competitors. ‘This remarkable devel-
opment/ said the late Sir John Rodger,
Governor of the Gold Coast some years ago,
when the cocoa output was but a third of
what it has become, ‘has been carried out
with only slight assistance from the Govern-
ment agricultural staff, and entirely by na-
tive, not by European, planters. I know of
no other country of which this can be said,
and I think that the natives of the Gold
Coast deserve the highest credit.' Sir Hugh
Clifford, the present Governor, has recently
recorded his opinion in equally emphatic
terms:
“ ‘To-day, it is gratifying to recall, this
colony occupies the position of the premier
cocoa-producing country of the world. When
it is remembered that coco a-cultivation is,
in the Gold Coast and in Ashanti, a purely
native industry—that there is hardly an acre
of European-owned cocoa-garden in the ter-
ritories under the administration of this
Government—this remarkable achievement
of a unique position as a producer of one of
the world’s staples assumes, in my opinion,
a special value and significance.’ • • •
“To-day the Uganda farmer has put 100,-
000 acres of land under cotton—each farmer
working ‘on his own.' The export of lint,
which was 725 tons in 1909, rose to 2,473
tons in 1911. It is estimated that the crop
this year will be somewhere near 50,000 bales
of 400 lb. each which, with the seed, will be
worth roughly three-quarters of a million
sterling. The whole of the crop has been
grown by the natives on their farms, and
they are well satisfied with the price they
obtain. • * •
“So here again the Uganda experiment is
conclusive as to the willingness and the abil-
ity of the native of tropical Africa to utilize
his land fruitfully to the world’s advantage,
provided he works for himself on his own
plot under his own methods. In Northern
Nigeria the industrious Hausa has grown
cotton for upwards of a thousand years, and
not only grown it but weaved it on narrow
looms of his own manufacture into hand-
some and enduring cloths, dyed it with
indigo of his own growing, and embroidered
the finished product with elaborate and really
beautiful designs. In the Kano province
particularly, which is almost as large as Scot-
land, with a population of 2,500,000, the
cultivation of cotton is accompanied by a
true national industry of weaving, dyeing,
manufacture,' and embroidery, which gives
healthy employment to tens of thousands of
African men, women, and children, adds
dignity', interest, and wealth to the life of
the people, and sustains several other
branches of industrial activity, binding the
.agriculturist and the artisan in the close re-
lationship of a common utilitarian interest.
I confidently recommend a journey through
Kano province as an antidote to the popular
delusion about the African’s ‘incapacity to
work.’ Nowhere in France or Belgium have
I seen anything more remarkable in the way
of cultivation. * * *
“The tropical African native is neither the
half-child nor half-devil of popular imagina-
tion. He is at bottom a keen man of busi-
ness, a trader, and an agriculturist. In the
measure in which this is recognized the mod-
ern intervention of the white race in tropical
Africa will be a success or disaster to
both white and black.”
m
A COLLECT
from the Horace Traubel is one of the
April glebe few modern prophets who
dares think straight on the
race problem. Indeed, dares think at all.
Read this from one of his collects in the
Glebe:
“What is the color of your skin? Are you
a child of the sun or a child of the snow?
Do you come with red in your face? Or
is there a shadow across your head? Are
you the white child of a black mother or the
black child of a white mother? I see your
brown red right hand. How warm it feels
to me. I look into your glowing equatorial
eyes. How like being led to fathers and
mothers that is. You bring me north, south,
’east, west. You guide yourselves to me.
You distribute me among yourselves. I am
your child no matter how. Your child no
matter where. There are seas everywhere.
But there is no sea between us. * * *
“Dear prouds and humbles: by God I’m
yours and you’re mine. Do you believe that
anything can take you from me or take me
from you? I meet you. I read about you.
I am told all the terrible truths. But every-
thing draws me nearer. Nothing drives me
away. If you could be less to me than I
am to myself then I would have to be more
OPINION
227
to myself than I could be to you. That
would violate my democracy. That would be
setting one thing above another. When I
elevate myself with all I am a democrat.
When I lift myself above the rest I am a
tyrant. Listen to me. You who are reading
what I write. Maybe you are black. Maybe
you are pink or white or yellow. Maybe you
are between or across. All that goes with
maybe. But when you are my brother there
*is no maybe to it. If I could look at any
man and not see his mother as my own I’d
be false to all motherhood. If I could look
at any woman and not see her father as my
own I’d be false to all fatherhood. I’m not
satisfied with one mother. I want all moth-
ers. Nor with one father. I want all fathers.
Nor with my children. I want all children.
Fin not satisfied with one color. I want all
colors. Nor with one race. I want all
races. Nor with one language. T want all
languages. My hunger is fiercely universal.
Fm not fed till I’ve eaten at every table. I
can only know one woman by knowing all
women. I can only know one people.
“What is the color of your skin? I see.
You are a nigger. You are a damned dago.
You are the man on the other side of the
wall. The man over somewhere. The yellow
peril. The ignorant dirty emigrant. The
two for a quarter six for a half dollar mill
slave. There is a border line between us.
There are incomes between us. There is a
whole code of manners between us. You are
the godforsaken Polack. You are the hook-
nosed Jew. You are the monkeyfaced Irish-
man. You are the beerguzzled deutscher.
T call you names. I can’t see you. You are
in the next yard. The stars look just as
well from the next yard. But I insist upon
the exclusive astronomy of my own garden.
I smell your stale clothes. I am choked by
the aromas of your foul kitchens. Would
you like your sister to marry an African?
Fm not fussy. I’m only a man. A white
man. I don’t draw lines ferninst you. I
only draw lines in favor of myself. Do you
mean to say you think these ignoramuses as
good as yourself? Do you tell me that you’re
no better than the herd? Nonsense. There’s
the nietzschean word for it. The average
man is the herd. The awkward big-fisted
loon. The idiot crowd. The people every-
body kicks. The folks everybody despises.
The men, women, children you wouldn’t in-
vite into your home. I use them. Ride
them. Make money off them. But that’s all
I want of them. Just the robber money.
Not the man love. • • •
“A woman heard me expressing my race
faith. She asked me: ‘How would you like
to have a grandchild with a black skin?’
That was it. That was the whole devilish
poisonous story. The entire problem prej-
udice in a nutshell. She didn’t ask: How
would you like to have a grandchild with a
black soul? That would have meant some-
thing. But she wasn’t interested in souls.
She was interested in skins. How would I
like to have a grandchild with a black skin ?
What is the color of your skin ?
“What is the color of your skin? Maybe
you have a black skin and a white heart?
Maybe you have a white skin and a black
heart. I don’t know. We talk about the
yellow peril when we think of Asia. And
we talk about the brown peril when we think
of Italy. And we talk about the black peril
when we think of South Carolina. But all
of us are afraid to talk of the white peril.
I see no perils. My arms reach out to all.
I want the Chinaman to possess himself of
the earth if lie’s an earth man. Let him
freely pass right and left testing himself
and us. Don’t put up pennywise barriers
built on poundfoolish laws. Rather do any-
thing than stop your fraternities short of
the total census of man. Every interfering
sea, every contradicting statute, every coun-
terchecking prejudice, every adventure in
money-making, that nullifies the interna-
tional inference is a slap in the face of bro-
therhood. Damn up the human stream.
Then you damn down the soul. *
“I would only be worthy of serving if I
was worthy of being served. I would only
cease being a peril if I ceased calling others
perilous. How could I be worthy of being
a white man if I was too good to be a black
man? Ethiopia cries out loud to Scandi-
navia. India cries out loud to England. All
the peoples cry out loud from everywhere to
all the peoples. There is no peril in peoples.”
§§
A CONGRESSIONAL DEBATE
more expositions The colored people of
Illinois are asking Con-
gress for $150,000 to celebrate Emancipa-
tion. Hearing of this Giles B. Jackson, a
colored man of Richmond, Va., who has
been accused of very disreputable practises,
has appealed to Congress for $55,000 to en-
228
THE CRISIS
able him and some other folks associated
with him also to celebrate. The Virginia
congressman took to the proposal kindly.
Martin, of Virginia, said:
“I simply want to submit this matter to
the sense of justice and the generosity of
the Senate. It comes in a somewhat irregu-
lar way, but it has appealed to me very
strongly. I lire in the South, and have lived
among the Negro population all my days. I
know them and I know their weaknesses and
their strong points. They have many strong
points, and they have accomplished a great
deal. They have been struggling against the
most difficult circumstances; and I think that
they have made a progress that is almost
astounding, considering the opportunities
which they have had. They wish to celebrate
their achievements during the 50 years of
their freedom.”
Vardaman of Mississippi remarked:
“The white people have assisted them (the
Negroes) in every possible way, except to
make citizens or voters of them, and, of
course, that ought not to be done and, in-
deed, will never be done. I am perfectly
willing to help develop the Negro along cer-
tain lines. I wish him well; but I do not
think any good will result from this appro-
priation.”
Congressman White retorted:
“He has been our burden in the past; he
was our burden when he was a slave; and
yet, Mr. President, he contributed wonder-
fully to our race. We can point to as fine
a race of white men as ever lived from the
South, and those men received from the toil
and sacrifice of the Negroes the means with
which they educated and accomplished. We
are grateful'to him for what he has done,
and we are willing to show our gratitude by
way of urging this appropriation for their
benefit and to show the world what they have
accomplished since acquiring freedom.
<rBut, Mr. President, we are more truly
grateful to them for what they did for us
during the struggle in which their freedom
was the issue than for what they did for us
in other times. When all the colored man
had to do to obtain his freedom was to cross
the line and take up arms against our sec-
tion, he stood by our side and fought our
battles with us. He camped with us at
night; he marched with us by day; he held
our horses and guarded our tents while we
stood in battle line and met death by thou-
sands. He supplied our every want; he
guarded our homes and protected our women
and children; he was indeed our friend. He
showed his friendship and his loyalty as no
other race on earth had ever done by stand-
ing by us in the hours of our trouble.
“The black men of the South carried their
dead masters back to their wives; the sons
who had fallen in battle back to their
mothers' arms. They bore our sick and the
wounded to them; and when they came bear-
ing in their hands these precious burdens,
they so endeared themselves to us that it has
never been forgotten.”
What a pity to waste this excellent talk
on Giles Jaekson!
m
DISFRANCHISEMENT
the white There has been as yet no at-
p rim ary	tempt to bring the question of
white primary into the courts
but it manifestly must be done in the near
future. Here, for instance, in the Charlotte
(N. C.) Observer are the rules fixed for the
primary election in the State. These rules
are:
“1. That the primaries be held in Meck-
lenburg County to express preferences for
Democratic candidates for State, congres-
sional and county, legislative and township
officers.
“2. That the candidates for legislative,
county, congressional and State offices and
delegates to the county convention be elected
by a vote of the people in the respective pre-
cincts and that such a vote be by ballot. That
each precinct shall be entitled to two dele-
gates for each vote it has in the county con-
vention.
“3. That an executive committee of five
be elected in each precinct in the primary,
.and that such election be by ballot.
“4. That all qualified white voters, Demo-
cratic voters, or all white voters who will be
qualified to vote in the November election,
who will agree to support the nominees of
.the primary in the general election be in-
vited to participate in the primary.”
We are reminded of the acquiesence of
the great Progressive Party in this dishonor-
able and illegal attack on democracy. In
Chicago, as the Examiner reports, the Rev.
William T. McElveen was speaking before
the church class in current events. He took
up an address delivered a week before by
Professor Sidney L. Gulick, of a Japanese
OPINION
229
university, in whieh the American attitude
toward Japan was strongly criticised.
“If Colonel Roosevelt had charge he would
soon solve the problem of who shall be ad-
mitted to citizenship in the United States,”
said the pastor.
Instantly Mrs. McCulloch was on her feet.
“If Colonel Roosevelt didn’t show any
more courage in the Japanese question than
he did with the Negroes in his Progressive
convention, he would do no good,” she ex-
claimed.
m
SEGREGATION
proposals in city Mr. Clarence Poe, who
and country is advocating the segre-
gation of Negroes in
country districts, in a letter to the Governor
of Virginia, says:
<fNor do I believe for a minute that so
wise and observant a man as you believes we
can rest in fancied security on the theory
that the Negroes are content with social con-
ditions as they are. I have no doubt that
many Negroes to-day are perfectly sincere
in saying that they do not want social equal-
ity. They know the race is too weak to get
it. It is a universal rule ‘that men seldom
strive keenly for that which is absolutely be-
yond their reach. They strive for the next
thing and then press on. When Andrew
Carnegie was a poor working boy, he was
not ambitious for a hundred million was all
he wanted; but then he wanted a hundred
thousand, then a million; then a hundred
million.
“The congress at Memphis was soothed
and lulled, of course, by Negroes like Booker
Washington, who tell us that the Negro has
no desire for social mixing and who makes
us feel ashamed of our ‘prejudice’ against
‘the color of a man’s skin’—and the white
people cheered and cheered and went away
satisfied.
“But let me tell you this, my dear Gov-
ernor: within 48 hours after the whites in
Memphis heard such messages as these from
Negro speakers, I went down to the Avery
Chapel, the great Negro church, and saw it
packed to suffocation with Negroes and
mulattoes fired by an entirely different gos-
pel—the doctrine that the Negro must break
down every barrier and that every discrim-
ination must be swept away until nothing
stands in the way of intermarriage, Negro
office-holding, or anything else. That is the
doctrine preached by Dr. W. E. DuBois,
their chief speaker (himself two-thirds
white), who declares that one of the next
things to work for is the repeal of all laws
that prohibit the intermarriage of the races.
It was the soothing voice of Washington
that the whites heard at Memphis, but it was
the voice of DuBois that the Negroes and
mulattoes listened to, and observed, and car-
ried away in their hearts. Are not the hands
the hands of Esau but the voice the voice of
Jacob?”
This, as Mr. Poe knows perfectly well, is
as great a perversion of Mr. DuBois’ speech
as it is of his Negro blood, and yet Mr. Poe
in the South Atlantic Quarterly pleads
rather plaintively against being “denounced”
as an agitator.
“I hope I shall never be classed with the
bitter or destructive type of ‘Negro agita-
tors.’ My whole aim in this matter has been
to develop a constructive policy for the help
of the white man and not a destructive policy
to the hurt of the Negro. If I know my
own heart I would not be unjust to the Ne-
gro. For the Shylocks and vultures of our
own race who fatten financially upon his
ignorance and weakness I have nothing but
the utmost contempt and loathing. For all
who would oppress him and keep him in
peonage I have no shadow of sympathy. 1
believe in helping the Negro and in being
just to him.”
He claims, however, that the Negro has
certain “advantages” over the white farmer.
These advantages being “shabbier houses,
meaner food and dirtier clothes,” and then
comes the insinuation which places Mr. Poe
with Blease and Vardaman, namely, that the
Negro criminal is driving the white farmer
out of the rural white South. As a matter
of fact the exact opposite is true. It is the
white hoodlum that makes it so difficult for
Negroes to live in the country districts of the
South.
m
THE NEGRO AND OIL
more OKLAHOMA cases The Philadelphia
North American
has the following article:
“Indians, white men and black meu are
being made into millionaires almost over-
night in Oklahoma these days, and Uncle
Sam is acting as treasurer in this fascinating
game of getting rich without doing a stroke
of work. The money is pouring in a golden
230
THE CRISIS
stream into the hands of people who a few
years ago were as poor as the proverbial
small rodent in the sanctuary.
"The discovery of oil several years ago is
the cause of all this, and already a number
of Indians, blacks and whites are in the mil-
lionaire class, with the money still coming in
in barrels full. Uncle Sam’s part in this is
to see that the Indians aud the freedmen who
own the lands get their royalty for the oil
taken out. The commissioner of Indian af-
fairs, Cato Sells, has direct charge of this
get-rich-quick game, as his office looks out
for the leasing of the lands belonging to the
Indians and freedmen.
"The freedmen mentioned were Xegro
slaves held by the Creek Indians until they
were freed by the civil war. Later a treaty
was made between the United States and the
Creek Indians whereby slaves belonging to
the Creeks aud their descendants were given
an equal share with their former owners on
the government allotment of the old Creek
lands in Indian territory'.
"This is how Danny Tucker, a 10-year-old
Xegro boy, came into possession of 160 acres
of land, which has produced and is produc-
ing as much oil as any other similar area of
ground in the United States, if not in the
world.
"The 160 acres of land were allotted to
him in 1906 for farm purposes. It is rock
and hilly, no ten acres slanting the same way
and is virtually unfit for farming. Two
years ago one of the big oil companies ob-
tained a lease on the allotment, with the re-
sult that apparently worthless land has be-
come one of the.richest spots in Oklahoma.
"At first Danny received $200 a month in
royalties; in March last it had jumped to
$6,000 a month, and now it is $6,750 a month
and still going up. The production of oil
on the land owned by the little Xegro now
amounts to 2,400 barrels daily.
"The wells completed give promise of long
life, and if they do keep up, it will not be
long before it will be utterly impossible for
Danny to count his money. Although the
colored boy is a prospective millionaire, he
is paying little attention to anything but the
feeding of his chickens and pigs on his
father’s farm.”
It Is needless to add that a white man has
been made Danny Tucker’s guardian.
The special grievance of Mr. Spiugaru
against Dr. Washington, as given by his
speech, is that under Dr. Washington’s lead-
ership the colored people have collected
about $1,000,000,000 worth of property and
everything else except this $1,000,000,000
worth of property has been taken from them.
—X. Y. Age.
The editor of The Age is wrong. Prof.
Joel E. Spingarn expressed, in his "Xew
Abolition” speeches, no such grievances
against Dr. Booker T. Washington, and our
people have NOT “collected about $1,000,-
000,000 worth of property under Mr. Wash-
ington’s leadership.” It is positively silly
for any one to make such a monstrously un-
true statement. The great bulk of the race’s
property, however much it may be, was se-
cured under the leadership of Hons. Freder-
ick Douglass, John M. Langston, John R.
Lynch, B. K. Bruce and others of their time,
and the intelligent of our people, especially
those of the older ones, know it.—Cleveland
Gazette.
Eight striking personalities are treated in
careful essay form in Harry Graham’s
"Splendid Failures,” most of the studies be-
ing reprinted from the Edinburgh Review,
Xational Review, Dublin Review, or Corn-
hill. Any attempt at welding together the
material, as by a discussion of the causes of
the failure of genius, is quite properly
avoided. Theobald Wolfe Tone, now best
known for his diary, which Wellington de-
clared the most fascinating of books, figures
as "The First of the Fenians”; the “Napo-
leon of San Domingo” is, of course, Tous-
saint L’Ouverture; an old gibe is revived in
calling Haydon "The Cockney Raphael”;
Charles Townshend is "xV Shooting Star”;
W. H. Betty is "The Infant Roscius”;
George Smythe, "The Paladin of Young
England,” and Hartley Coleridge and the
Emperor Maximilian complete the gallery.
The word "failure” is, of course, used in not
merely a relative, but a very worldly sense,
and the author makes no attempt to accentu-
ate shadows, or to deprive such men as Tone,
L’Ouverture, and even the suicide, Haydon,
of the admiration for moral and material
achievement which is their due. And he
makes clear the contrast between the inbred
faults which caused Townshend and Colet
ridge and Smythe to pitch a flight so pitiful
below their powers and the natural obstacles
before Maximilian, L’Ouverture, and Tone.
COLORED SURGEON-IN-CHIEF, INTERNES AND NURSES, GENERAL CITY HOSPITAL, KANSAS CITY, MO.
DOES RACE ANTAGONISM SERVE
ANY GOOD PURPOSE
HERE are four classes of
reasons usually given in
defense of Race Antag-
onism.
1. It is an instinctive
repulsion from something
harmful and is, therefore, a subtle con-
dition of ultimate survival.
The difficulty with this theory is that
it does not square with the facts: race
antipathy is not instinctive but a matter
of careful education. Black and white
children play together gladly and know
no prejudice until it is implanted pre-
cept upon precept and by strong social
pressure; and when it is so implanted it
is just as strong in cases where there is
no physical difference as it is where
physical differences are striking. The
racial repulsion in the Balkans among
peoples of practically the same blood is
to-day greater than it was between
whites and blacks on the Virginia plan-
tations.
2. Racial antagonism, *• whether in-
stinctive or not, is a reasonable measure
of self-defense against undesirable racial
traits.
This second proposition is the one
which usually follows careful examina-
tion of the first. After all, it is admitted
“instinct” is an unimportant fact. In-
stincts are simply accumulated reasons
in the individual or in the race. The
reasons for antagonizing inferior races
are clear and may be summed up as
follows:
Poor health and stamina.
Low ability.
Harmful ideals of life.
We are now on surer ground because
we can now appeal to facts. But no
sooner do we make this appeal than we
are astonished to find that there are sur;
prising little data.:* Is it true that the
Negro as a physical animal is inferior to
the white man or is he superior? Is the
high death rate of the Indian a proof
of his poor physique or is it proof of
wretched conditions of life which would
long ago have killed off a weaker people ?
And, again, is spiritual superiority al-
ways in direct proportion to physical
strength in races any more than in in-
dividuals? Connected with this matter
of health comes the question of physical
.beauty, but surely, if^beauty were to be-
come a standard of survival how small
our world population would be!
It is argued, however, that it may be
granted that the physical stamina of all
races is probably approximately the
same and that physical comeliness is
rather a matter of taste and selection
than of absolute racial difference. How-
ever, when it comes to intellectual abil-
ity the races differ so enormously that
superior races must in self-defense repel
the inferior sternly, even brutally. TwcJ
things, however, must be. said in answer
to this: First, the prejudice against the
Jews, age long and world wide is surely
not based on inferior ability. We have
only to name Jeremiah, Disraeli and
Jesus Christ to set our minds at rest on
that point. Moreover, if we compare the
intellectual ability of Teuton apd Chi-
nese which is inferior? Or, if we take
Englishman and Bantu, is the difference
EDITORIAL
233
a difference of native ability or of train-
ing and environment? The answer to
this is simple: We do not know. But
arguing from all known facts and an-
ologies we must certainly admit in the
words of the secretary of the First In-
ternational Races Congress, that “an im-
partial investigator would be inclined to
look upon the various important peoples
of the world as, to all intents and pur-
poses, essentially equals in intellect, en-
terprise, morality and physique.”
3.	Racial antipathy is a method of
Race Development.
We may admit so far as physique and
native ability go, that as Ratzel says:
“There is only one species of man; the
variations are numerous, but do not go
deep.” At the same time it is plain that
Europe has out-stripped China in civil-
ization, and China has out-stripped
Africa. Here at least are plain facts.
Is not racial antipathy a method of
maintaining the European level of cul-
ture ? But is it necessary for the runner
to hate and despise the man he is out-
distancing? Can we only maintain cul-
ture in one race by increasing barbarism
in others? Does it enhance the “superi-
ority” of white men to allow them to
steal from yellow men and enslave black
men and reduce colored women to con-
cubinage and prostitution? Surely not.
Admitting that in the world’s history
again and again this or that race has
out-stripped another in culture, it is im-
possible to prove that inherent racial
superiority was the cause or that the
level of culture has been permanently
raised in one race by keeping other races
down.
4.	Race Antipathy is a method of
group specialization.
This argument admits the essential
equality of races but insists on the dif-
ference in gifts and argues that an-
tipathy between races allows each to
develop its own peculiar gifts and apti-
tudes. Does it? That depends on the
“antipathy.” If antipathy means the
enslaving of the African, the exploita-
tion of the Chinese, the peonage of
Mexicans and the denial of schools to
American Negroes then it js hard to see
where the “encouragement” comes in.
If it means the generous encouragement
of all men according to their gifts and
ability then why speak of race “an-
tipathy” or encourage it? Let us call it
Human Uplift and Universal Brother-
hood and be done with it.
Such are the arguments. Most per-
sons use all four at once and skillfully
skip from one to the other. Each argu-
ment has in other days been applied to
individuals and social classes, but we
have outgrown that. We apply it to-day
to “races” because race is a vague, un-
known term which may be made to cover
a multitude of sins. After all, what is
a “Race ?” and how many races are
there? Von Luschan, one of the great-
est of modern anthropologists, says:
“The question of the number of human
races has quite lost its raison d’ etre, and
has become a subject rather of philo-
sophic speculation than of scientific re-
search.” What we have on earth is men.
Shall we help them or hinder them?
Shall we hate and kill them or love and
preserve and uplift them? Which meth-
od will do us most good? This is the
real question of “Race” antipathy.
a
CABIRIA
F there is one event that
more than others show’s
the silly cowardice of
the average white Amer-
ican editor, it is the mar-
velously successful stag-
ing of the moving picture “Cabiria” in
New York City. Cabiria is a tale of the
flaming wTorld of the Punic Wars. Had
it been done in America, every partici-
pant wrould have been a dead monoton-
ous white, as witness our versions of
Aida and even Othello! But D’Annun-
zio is Italian, born v’ithin the shadow of
the Sun. We see then the noble black
king, Massinissa, as well as the black
slave who wras superman. It is a splendid
drama .and the public receives it as such.
234
THE CRISIS
Yet what American magazine dares
paint a Negro as aught but a beast, a
clown, or a silly old servant?
S3
THE STORY OF AFRICA
NCE upon a time there
lay a land in the southern
seas; a dark, grim laud,
walled well against the
world. Aud in that land
rose three rivers and a
fourth, all flowing out to seek the sea.
One river was born amid the Lakes and
Mountains of the Moon, sun-kissed,
snow-capped, and fled to the northward
silent, swiftly; it clambered over the
hills and swam the marshes. It thread-
ed the sands—the narrow, choking
sands that grew hotter and narrower as
it went; yet the river swept on to wider,
greener fields, to a laughing plain until
through many mouths it burst like a
rocket to the Middle Sea with all its
myriads of men.
In the wake of the river came dark
men creeping, dancing, marching, build-
ing, until their pyramids and temples
dotted the land and dared the Heavens,
and the Thought of their souls and cities
was the Beginning of the World.
Far, far away to westward another
river leapt and sang and lightly turned
its back upon the Sea, rushing to north-
ward. But the grim desert shrieked in
its fastnesses crying “Not here!” So
the river whirled southward till the
black forests cried in their gloom, “Not
here!” The river bowed and circled
westward. Sullenly, silently, yet proud-
ly, she swept into the western sea. As
she swept she sang low minor melody;
as she sang she scattered gold carelessly
to the black children. But ere she died
in the depth of the sea she gave to her
strongest and blackest sons, Iron—the
precious gift of Iron. They fashioned it
cunningly and welded it in faery forms
and sent it to the ends of earth to make
all men awake. And men awoke*. They
awoke on the cunning breast of the
river's self and kingdom on kingdom
arose until the empire of the Songhay
rivaled the empires of the world. The
sound of the might of Negro land echoed
in Carthage and grew in Numidia and
gave fairy tales to the Middle Sea.
Away to the south and eastward and
below the Mountains of the Moon the
third broad river heard her sisters hur-
rying seawai*d. North and westward
they had gone but she turned to the
eternal east. Golden she lifted up her
golden hands and stretched to Ophir,
Punt and Tarshish her long, lithe finger.
Her voice rose mighty in song until with
a million stars in her throat she dropped
wild singing in the southern sea and
shuddered to the vastness of its silence.
Her black children sat in mine, for-
tress, temple and flowering field and
traded with dark traders beyond the
India Sea, till lo: out of the north came
a cry, a cry like the anguish of a soul.
For back in the bowels .of the land men
heard the running of three rivers and
rushed away madly; for they were those
that would not hear and could not see.
On they ran, on, on and eastward ring-
ing their spears and crying their great,
awful cry of war. As locusts swarming
they passed the north of the glooming
forest with its dim red faerie; eastward
they looked upon the inland oceans and
southward they sent their war cry reel-
ing to the Mountains of the Moon.
There came a shouting in the wilder-
ness and again as swarming bees onward
they came, and again the war cry echoed
to the stars. Over the ruin of things
that were passed that black and human
flood until its angry surf dashed into the
vast, red Heart of the Land, and knew
the haunted spell-cursed realm of the
Last River. Mighty was this* last of
rivers—a river of rivers, an endless lac-
ing and swirling and curling and swell-
ing and streaming of wild, weird waters
beneath the giant jungle, where the lion,
the leopard and the elephant slept with
the long, slim snake.
Hand in hand and voice to voice these
waters whirled in one vast circle within
the bosom of the land saying their in-
EDITORIAL
235
cantations. They shouldered past the
mountains and sang past all the seas,
then shunning the glaring desert and in-
gathering themselves to one swarming
flood they thrilled and thundered on the
sea. Snake-like and lion strong they
gathered the children, the little dark and
weeping children, and lo, beyond on
swelling waters rose a hoarse, harsh cry
and slim and sail-like fingers beckoned
to the westward deeps. The river
paused and rose red and reeking in the
sunlight—thundered to the sea—thun-
dered through the sea in one long line
of blood, with tossing limbs and the
echoing cries of death and pain.
On, on! the bloody waters, with those
pale ghost fingers of ship and sail, with
gold and iron, hurt and hell, rolled,
swelled and tumbled, until the laughing
islands of the western sea grew dark and
dumb with pain and in the world, the
great new world a Sorrow was planted
and the Sorrow grew.
M
FIGHTING.
OW the age in which we
live is a positive, dyna-
mic age. There are con-
flicts going on all about
us against greed and
selfishness, for the bene-
fit (on a national scale, mind you) of
ignorant and suffering humanity.
“There are some good people who de-
cry this struggle. An eminent minister
of the gospel is quoted recently as say-
ing that fighting is the wrong way to go
about the bettering of conditions. Let
our reformers, he said in effect, like pre-
cious lumps of radium, sit still and ema-
nate virtue-particles. Now I am very
far from denying that the very essence
of righteousness is that it can be radi-
ated, is radiated: but how, it may be
asked, is righteousness acquired. Is it
acquired by one’s sitting still and ab-
sorbing it? Is it to be achieved by prac-
tising a long list of Thou shalt nots?’
“Righteousness, I believe we must all
agree, is potential energy, to be won,
and to be won only by buffeting one’s
way up a toilsome slope against enemies,
against that terrible power, incarnate in
mankind, which is called, for lack of a
better name, evil. Righteousness is
growth. The moment fighting stops,
growth stops, and righteousness has
ceased to radiate because it is dead.
“Which are the men who, like power-
ful electric generators, have radiated it
so that all mankind is stirred and ener-
gized? Are they not those who were
most hated and vilified in their day by
the evil-minded and the close-minded,
because they set their faces resolutely
against complacent customs whiic h
wronged humanity and against compla-
cent selfishness which sought to destroy
it? We need go no farther for an exam-
ple of this than Jesus Christ.”
Winston Churchill in the Christmas
Century.
KING COTTON AND THE NEGRO
m m	By JASPER ROSS
'ITS7TTH brawny arms the Negro stands,
* * Uplifting in his sable hands
King Cotton; while about him grow
The pretty buds as white as snow.
His arms alone support, sustain,
His royal person while he reigns.
Exalt, ye#nations that be prone,
Him who thus stands beneath the throne
For lo, what danger! what alarm!
Should he withdraw his mighty arm.
Pray, what if he should take away
That pow’r which gives King Cotton sway
O’er all the world; for by his right
He can withhold that which would blight
The nations all upon the globe.
For though he may not wear the robe,
Nor on the regal throne may sit,
He is the king; though black quite fit;
Despite illit’racy and birth,
To wield the scepter o’er the earth.
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ffl » ■
a b b ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE
SEGREGATION
A T present Louisville, Ky., is the strategic
point of the segregation fight. The re-
sults will be of the utmost importance and
may determine if the Negro is to be segre-
gated in the United States. If the Louis-
ville Ordinance is held valid it may be wide-
ly eopiecL News comes from Birmingham,
Ala., that that city after announcing its in-
tention of passing a segregation ordinance,
has decided to await the results of the Louis-
ville and Richmond cases. The Louisville
ordinance has been carefully drawn and the
men who did the work believe they have
avoided the defects which have made similar
ordinances invalid.
After conferring with the Attorney of the
National Association, and following an en-
thusiastic mass-meeting held in Quinn Chapel
at which Dr. Spingarn and Mr. Pickens
made addresses, the colored people of Louis-
ville organized a Branch of the National
Association and raised money to retain a
local attorney to bring a test case under the
new ordinance. This the Association is
pledged to carry to the Supreme Court of
the United States if necessary. The Inter-
denominational Ministers7 Union in Louis-
ville adopted resolutions of appreciation for
the services of the Attorney of the Associa-
tion. August 9 has been announced as
Segregation Sunday when ministers in all
churches will be asked to preach on the
subject.
CONGRESS
rPHE legislative representative of the Asso-
ciation in Washington reports that the
Antimiscegenation Bill scheduled for consid-
eration on July 27 has been postponed for at
least another two weeks. It is rumored that
Democratic leaders are urging their South-
ern contingent to avoid stirring up racial
antipathies this summer because of the dan-
gerous affect such agitation may have on the
voters in the pivotal states. The Anti-mis-
cegenation Bill may get through the House
but it seems highly unlikely that it can pass
the Senate.
CIVIL RIGHTS
THE Association in its effort to inject life
into the New York Civil Rights Act has
met many difficulties. The last three months
at least fifty cases have been investigated by
the Attorney. In many instances the Legal
Bureau has been helpless because of the ab-
sence of witnesses to the violations of the
Civil Rights Act and because of the difficulty
-of securing people to act as witnesses in test
cases brought by the Association. Better co-
operation on the part of colored people is
essential if the New York Civil Rights Act
is to become effective. In one good case
which will come up in September the plain-
tiff brought his witness with him. If this
were done in every instance, soon the Civil
Rights Act would cease to be the dead letter
which it now is.
Even where witnesses have been secured
cases have not always been successful. In
the case of Goff vs. Polansky tried before
Judge Blake in the Seventh District Munic-
ipal Court, Mr. Paul Kennaday, of the
Board of Directors who acted as a witness,
not only corroborated the plaintiff in every'
respect but testified that the defendant had
stated to him that he refused to serve the
plaintiff in his restaurant on account of
color. This seemed a strong case yet the
Court gave judgment in favor of the de-
fendant who with one of the waitresses con-
tradicted Mr. Kennaday's testimony.
A restaurant in Fulton Street, Brooklyn,
refused to serve two young ladies. A white
clergyman in Brooklyn was secured as a wit-
ness and the young ladies went back to the
restaurant. The manager became suspicious
that a case was being made against him and
the ladies were served.
Many cases of clear discrimination cannot
be pushed because they do not come within
the terms of the Civil Rights Act. One of
the most aggravating of these was a case of
a colored man who was refused a time-table
by a ticket agent on the Lehigh Valley Rail-
road, who told him he was not paid to serve
colored people. Many complaints have been
received of the refusal to accommodate col-
ored people at the Temple Auditorium in
Brooklyn where pictures of the Creation are
being shown in connection with a lecture.
As no admission is charged, nothirfg can be
done.
THE N. A. A. C. P.
237
BRANCHES
branches have been chartered in
Minneapolis, El Paso, Tex., Shreve-
port, La., Virginia Union University, and
Newark, N. J.
Baltimore.
The Baltimore Branch reports a Jim-Crow
car victory. An indictment against James
Jenkins for violating the Separate Car Law
by refusing to take a Jim-Crow seat in one
of the cars of the Washington, Baltimore &
Indianapolis Railway Company was quashed
by Judge Elliott in the Criminal Court. Mr.
McGuinn and Mr. Hawkins represented the
local branch.
District of Columbia.
As a result of abolishing the U Street
Sub-Station of the Post Office in Washing-
ton, a number of colored clerks lost their
positions, including one man who had been
long in the service and who had a military
record. Mr. Grimke, the President of the
District of Columbia Branch, at once took
the matter up with the authorities and suc-
ceeded in getting three colored clerks rein-
stated in permanent positions.
Indianapolis.
The Legal Committee of the Branch has
several cases on hand. Messrs. Ransom and
Brokenburr report the acquital of two col-
ored boys arraigned for carrying concealed
weapons. The facts of the case are as fol-
lows: The Playground Commissioners had
equipped separate swimming-pools for white
and colored boys in Fall Creek, some dis-
tance from each other. The white boys ob-
jected to the colored boys swimming in any
part of Fall Creek between the two pools,
reserving, however, for themselves the right
to this privilege and constituting themselves
a special police to enforce their arbitrary
rule. Conditions were aggravated by the
fact that the colored boys’ baseball park lies
along Fall Creek between the two pools. Re-
cently when colored boys were discovered
swimming in the part of the Creek lying
immediately below the white boys’ pool they
were attacked by a crowd of white men and
boys. Later in a general fight shots were
exchanged and the two colored boys were
arrested. The cases were tried before Judge
Newton M. Taylor, the colored boys being
represented by the attorneys of the Branch.
A verdict of not guilty was returned and
the white boys were admonished by the
Court that they had no greater right to play
along and swim in Fall Creek than the col-
ored boys.
A novel entertainment called “The Flower
Garden” was given by the Branch and netted
the Association a substantial sum. Spring
with her heralds, girls costumed as flowers
and little children dancing the minuet, were
attractive features of this very original and
successful affair. It was directed by Miss
Norr and Miss Mary Fields.
Kansas Citt.
This Branch has been working successfully
through several active committees. The
Public Service Committee has taken up the
matter of discrimination against colored
people in public parks with considerable
success. In the matter of Garrison Square
Field House, a playground which though
built for colored people was about to be
given to Italians, the Committee secured a
reversal of this decision and the playground
will go to colored people for whom it was
intended. The Legislative Redress Commit-
tee, in spite of hard work, lost their appeal
to the Supreme Court in the case of a col-
ored man named Bonner who was held on a
charge of murder. The Publicity Committee
has sent out during one month over 4S0 let-
ters and notices in the interest of the work
of the Branch. A committee of girls known
at “The Clippers” have given The Crisis
for a year to the Public libraries in Kansas
City, Mo., and in Kansas City, Kans. They
are especially active in local charitable work.
Quincy.
A two days’ Interstate Conference on the
race question was held by the Quincy Branch
on July 23 and 24. Many prominent, people
from Chicago, Springfield, Milwaukee, and
other cities attended the sessions, which
opened at Bethel A. M. E. Church. Addres-
ses were made by Mr. Charles H. Williamson
and by Mr. H. E. Sehmiedeskamp. At the
closing session iu Turner Hall a distin-
guished audience of white and colored peo-
ple heard Dr. Du Bois. The conference suc-
ceeded beyond the best expectations of its
organizers and reflects great credit on Dr.
Nichols and on the Branch in the work they
are doing to arouse interest in the Associa-
tion in the Middle West.
St. Louis.
The St. Louis Branch recently investigated
rumors of segregation in the post office and
reports that these were without much foun-
dation.
HOPE DEFERRED
S Bi	By MRS. PAUL LAWRENCE DUNBAR	gg
'T'HE direct rays of the August sun smote
on the pavements of the city and made
the soda-water signs in front of the drug
stores alluringly suggestive of relief. Wom-
en in scant garments, displaying a maximum
of form and a minimum of taste, crept along
the pavements, their mussy light frocks sug-
gesting a futile disposition on the part of
the wearers to keep cool. Traditional look-
ing fat men mopped their faces, and dived
frautically into screened doors to emerge
redder and more perspiring. The presence
of small boys, scantily clad and of dusky
hue and languid steps marked the city, if
not distinctively southern, at least one on the
borderland between the North and the South.
Edwards joined the perspiring mob on the
hot streets and mopped his face with the
rest. His shoes were dusty, his collar wilt-
ed. As he caught a glimpse of himself in a
mirror of a shop window, he smiled grimly.
“Hardly a man to present himself before
one of the Lords of Creation to ask a favor,”
he muttered to himself.
Edwards was young; so young that he had
not outgrown his ideals. Rather than allow
that to happen, he had chosen one to share
them with him, and the man who can find a
woman willing to face poverty for her hus-
band’s ideals has a treasure far above rubies,
and more precious than one with a thorough
understanding of domestic science. But
ideals do not always supply the immediate
wants of the body, and it was the need of
the wholly material that drove Edwards
wilted, warm and discouraged into the Au-
gust sunshine.
The man in the office to which the elevator
boy directed him looked up impatiently from
his desk. The windows of the room were
open on a court-yard where green tree tops
waved in a humid breeze; an electric fan
whirred, and sent forth flashes of coolness;
cool looking leather chairs invited the dusty
traveler to sink into their depths.
Edwards was not invited to rest, however.
Cold gray eyes in an impassive pallid face
fixed him with a sneering stare, and a thin
icy voice cut in on his half spoken words
with a curt dismissal in its tone.
“Sorry, Mr.—Er—, but T shan’t be able
to grant your request.”
His “Good Morning” in response to Ed-
wards’ reply as he turned out of the room
was of the curtest, and left the impression of
decided relief at an unpleasant duty dis-
charged.
“Now where?” Pie had exhausted every
avenue, and this last closed the door of hope
with a finality that left no doubt in his mind.
He dragged himself down the little side
street, which led home, instinctively, as a
child draws near to its mother in its trouble.
Margaret met him at the door, and their
faces lighted up with the glow that always
irradiated them in eacli other’s presence.
She drew him into the green shade of the
little room, and her eyes asked, though her
lips did not frame the question.
“No hope,” he made reply to her unspoken
words.
She sat down suddenly as one grown
weak.
“If I could only just stick it out, little
girl,” he said, “but we need food, clothes,
and only money buys them, you know.”
“Perhaps it would have been better if we
hadn’t married—” she suggested timidly.
That thought had been uppermost in her
mind for some days lately.
“Because you are tired of poverty?” he
queried, the smile on his lips belying his
words.
She rose and put her arms about his neck.
“You know better than that; but because if
you did not have me, you could live on less,
and thus have a better chance to hold out
until they see your worth.”
“I’m afraid they never will.” He tried to
keep his tones even, but in spite of himself
a tremor shook his words. “The man I saw
to-day is my last hope; he is the chief clerk.
OJid what he says controls the opinions of
others. If I could have gotten past his de-
cision, I might have influenced the senior
member of the firm, but he is a man who
leaves details to his subordinates, and Mr.
Hanan was suspicious of me from the first.
He isn’t sure,” he continued with a little
laugh, which he tried to make sound spon-
taneous, “whether T am a stupendous fraud,
or an escaped lunatic.”
“We can wait; your chance will come,”
she soothed him with a rare smile.
“But in the meanwhile—” he finished for
her and paused himself.
HOPE DEFERRED
239
A sheaf of unpaid bills in the afternoon
mail, with the curt and wholly unnecessary
“Please Remit” in boldly impertinent char-
acters across the bottom of every one drove
Edwards out into the wilting sun. He knew
the main street from end to end; he could
tell how many trolley poles were on its cor-
ners; he felt that he almost knew the stones
in the buildings, and that the pavements
were worn with the constant passing of his
feet, so often in the past four months had
he walked, at first buoyantly, then hopefully,
at last wearily up and down its length.
The usual idle crowd jostled around the
baseball bulletins. Edwards joined them
mechanically. “I can be a side-walk fan,
even if I am impecunious.” He smiled to
himself as he said the words, and then lis-
tened idly to a voice at his side, “We are
getting metropolitan, see that!”
The “That” was an item above the base-
ball score. Edwards looked and the letters
burned themselves like white fire into his
consciousness.
STRIKE SPREADS TO OUR CITY.
WAITERS AT ADAMS’ WALK OUT
AFTER BREAKFAST THIS MORNING.
“Good!” he said aloud. The man at his
side smiled appreciatively at him; the home
team had scored another run, but unheeding
that Edwards walked down the street with a
lighter step than he had known for days.
'The proprietor of Adams’ restaurant be-
lied both his name and his vocation. He
should have been rubieand, corpulent, Amer-
ican; instead he was wiry, lank, foreign in
appearance. His teeth projected over a full
lower lip, his eyes set far back in his head
and were concealed by wrinkles that seemed
to have been acquired by years of squinting
into men’s motives.
“Of course I want waiters,” he replied to
Edwards’ question, “any fool knows that.”
He paused, drew injiis lower lip within the
safe confines of his long teeth, squinted his
eye intently on Edwards. “But do I want
colored waiters? Now, do I?”
“It seems to me there’s no choice for you
in the matter,” said Edwards good-humor-
edly.
The reply seemed to amuse the restaurant
keeper immensely; he slapped the younger
man on the back with a familiarity that
made him wince both physically and spirit-
ually.
“I guess I’ll take you for head waiter.”
He was inclined to be jocular, even in the
face of the disaster which the morning’s
strike had brought him. “Peel off and go to
work. Say, stop!” as Edwards looked
around to take his bearings, “What’s your
name?”
“Louis Edwards.”
“Uh huh, had any experience?”
“Yes, some years ago, when I was in
school.”
“Uh huh, then waiting ain’t your general
work.”
“No.”
“Uh huh, what do you do for a living?”
“I’m a civil engineer.”
One eye-brow of the saturnine Adams
shot up, and he withdrew his lower lip en-
tirely under his teeth.
“Well, say man, if you’re an engineer,
what you want to be strike-breaking here in
a waiter’s coat for, eh?”
Edwards’ face darkened, and he shrugged
his shoulders. “They don’t need me, I
guess,” he replied briefly. It was an effort,
and the restaurant keeper saw it, but his
wonder overcame his sympathy.
“Don’t need you with all that going on at
the Monarch works? Why, man, I’d a
thought every engineer this side o’ hell would
be needed out there.”
“So did I; that’s why I came here, but—”
“Say, kid, I’m sorry for you, I surely am;
you go on to work.”
“And so,” narrated Edwards to Margaret,
after midnight, when he had gotten in from
his first day’s work, “I became at once head
waiter, first assistant, all the other waiters,
chief boss, steward, and high-muck-a-muck,
with all the emoluments and perquisites
thereof.”
Margaret was silent; with her ready sym-
pathy she knew that no words of hers were
needed then, they would only add to the bur-
dens he had to bear. Nothing could be more
bitter than this apparent blasting of his life-
long hopes, this seeming lowering of his
standard. She said nothing, but the pres-
sure of her slim brown hand in his meant
more than words to them both.
“'It’s hard to keep the vision true,” he
groaned.
If it was hard that night, it grew doubly
so within the next few weeks. Not lightly
were the deposed waiters to take their own
self-dismissal and supplanting. Daily they
menaced the restaurant with their surly at-
tentions, ugly and ominous. Adams shot out
his lower lip from the coufines of his long
240
THE CRISIS
teeth and swore in a various language that
he’d run his own place if he had to get every
nigger in Africa to help him. The three or
four men whom he was able to induce to
stay with him in the face of missiles of every
nature, threatened every day to give up the
battle. Edwards was the force that held
them together. He used every argument
from the purely material one of holding on
to the job now that they had it, through the
negative one of loyalty to the man in his
hour of need, to the altruistic one of keeping
the place open for colored men for all time.
There were none of them of such value as
his own personality, and the fact that he
stuck through all the turmoil. He wiped the
mud from his face, picked up the putrid
vegetables that often strewed the floor, bar-
ricaded the doors at night, replaced orders
that were destroyed by well-aimed stones,
and stood by Adams’ side when the fight
threatened to grow serious.
Adams was appreciative. “Say, kid, I
don’t know what I’d a done without you,
now that’s honest. Take it from me, when
you need a friend anywhere on earth, and
you can send me a wireless, I’m right there
with the goods in answer to your S. O. S.”
This was on the afternoon when the pa-
trol, lined up in front of the restaurant,
gathered in a few of the most disturbing
ones, none of whom, by the way, had ever
been employed in the place. “Sympathy”
had pervaded the town.
The humid August days melted into the
sultry ones of September. The self-dis-
missed waiters had quieted down, and save
for an occasional missile, annoyed Adams
and his corps of dark-skinned helpers no
longer. Edwards had resigned himself to
his temporary discomforts. He felt, with
the optimism of the idealist, that it was only
for a little while; the fact that he had sought
work at his profession for nearly a year had
not vet discouraged him. He would explain
carefully to Margaret when the day’s work
was over, that it was only for a little while;
he would earn enough at this to enable them
to get away, and then in some other place he
would be able to stand up with the proud
consciousness that all his training had not
been in vain.
He was revolving all these plans in his
mind one Saturday night. It was at the hour
when business was dull, and he leaned
against the window and sought entertain-
ment from the crowd on the street. Satur-
day night, with all the blare and glare and
garishness dear to the heart of the middle-
class provincial of the smaller cities, was
holding court on the city streets. The hot
September sun had left humidity and close-
ness in its wake, and the evening mists had
scarce had time to cast coolness over the
town. Shop windows glared wares through
colored lights, and phonographs shrilled
popular tunes from open store doors to at-
tract unwary passersby. Half-grown boys
and girls, happy in the license of Saturday
night on the crowded streets, jostled one an-
other and pushed in long lines, shouted fa-
miliar epithets at other pedestrians with all
the abandon of the ill-breeding common to
the class. One crowd, in particular, at-
tracted Edwards’ attention. The girls were
brave in semi-decollete waists, scant short
skirts and exaggerated heads, built up in
fanciful designs; the boys with flamboyant
red neckties, striking hat-bands, and white
trousers. They made a snake line, boys and
girls, hands on each others’ shoulders, and
rushed shouting through the press of shop-
pers, scattering the inattentive right and
left. Edwards’ lip curled, “Now, if those
were colored boys and girls—”
His reflections were never finished, for a
patron moved towards his table, and the cri-
tic of human life became once more the de-
ferential waiter.
He did not move a muscle of his face as
he placed the glass of water on the table,
handed the menu card, and stood at atten-
tion waiting for the order, although he had
recognized at first glance the half-sneering
face of his old hope—Hanan, of the great
concern which had no need of him. To
Hanan, the man who brought his order was
but one of the horde of menials who satisfied
his daily wants and soothed his vanity when
the cares of the day had ceased pressing on
his shoulders. He had not even looked at
the man’s face, and for this Edwards was
grateful.
A new note had crept into the noise on
the streets; there was in it now, not so much
mirth and ribaldry as menace and anger.
Edwards looked outside in slight alarm; he
had grown used to that note in the clamor
of the streets, particularly on Saturday
nights; it meant that the whole restaurant
must be prepared to quell a disturbance.
The snake line had changed; there were only
flamboyant hat-bands in it now, the decol-
lete shirt waists and scant skirts had taken
HOPE DEFERRED
241
refuge on another coruer. Something in the
shouting attracted Hanan’s attention, and he
looked up wonderingly.
“What are they saying ?” he inquired. Ed-
wards did not answer; he was so familiar
with the old cry that he thought it unneces-
sary.
“Yah! Yah! Old Adams hires niggers!
Hires niggers!”
“Why, that is so,” Hanan looked up at
Edwards’ dark face for the first time. “This
is quite an innovation for Adams’ place.
How did it happen?”
“We are strike-breakers,” replied the
waiter quietly, then he grew hot, for a gleam
of recognition came into Hanan’s eyes.
“Oh, yes, I see. Aren’t you the young
man who asked me for employment as an
engineer at the Monarch works?”
Edwards bowed, he could not answer; hurt
pride surged up within him and made his
eyes hot and his hands clammy.
“Well, er—I’m glad you’ve found a place
to work; very sensible of you, I’m sure. I
should think, too, that it is work for which
you would be more fitted than engineering.”
Edwards started to reply, but the hot
words were checked on his lips. The shout-
ing had reached a shrillness which boded im-
mediate results, and with the precision of a
missile from a warship’s gun, a stone hurtled
through the glass of the long window. It
struck Edwards’ hand, glanced through the
dishes on the tray which he was in the act
of setting on the table, and tipped half its
contents over Hanan’s, knee. He sprang to
his feet angrily, striving to brush the debris
of his dinner from his immaculate clothing,
and turned angrily upon Edwards.
“That is criminally careless of you!” he
flared, his eyes blazing in his pallid face.
“You could have prevented that; you’re not
even a good waiter, much less an engineer.”
And then something snapped in the darker
man’s head. The long strain of the fruitless
summer; the struggle of keeping together
the men who worked under him in the res-
taurant; the heat, and the task of enduring
what was to him the humiliation of serving,
and this last injustice, all culminated in a
blinding flash in his brain. Reason, intelli-
gence, all was obscured, save a man hatred,
and a desire to wreak his wrongs on the man,
who, for the time being, represented the au-
thor of them. He sprang at the white man’s
throat and bore him to the floor. They
wrestled and fought together, struggling,
biting, snarling, like brutes in the debris of
food and the clutter of overturned chairs and
tables.
The telephone rang insistently. Adams
wiped his hands on a towel, and carefully
moved a paint brush out of the way, as he
picked up the receiver.
“Hello!” he called. “Yes, this is Adams,
the restaurant keeper. Who? Uh huh.
Wants to know if I’ll go his bail? Say, that
nigger’s got softening of the brain. Course
not, let him serve his time, making all that
row in my place; never had no row here
before. No, I don’t never want to see him
again.”
He hung up the receiver with a bang, and
went back to his painting. He had almost
finished his sign, and he smiled as he ended
it with a flourish:
WAITERS WANTED. NONE BUT
WHITE MEN NEED APPLY
Out in the county work-house, Edwards
sat on his cot, his head buried in his hands.
He wondered what Margaret was doing all
this long hot Sunday, if the tears were blind-
ing her sight as they did his; then he started
to his feet, as the warden called his name.
Margaret stood before him, her arms out-
stretched, her mouth quivering with tender-
ness and sympathy, her whole form yearning
towards him with a passion of maternal love.
‘'Margaret! You here, in this place?”
“Aren’t you here?” she smiled bravely,
and drew his head towards the refuge of her
bosom. “Did you think I wouldn’t come to
see you?”
“To think I should have brought you to
this,” he moaned.
She stilled his reproaches and heard the
story from his lips. Then she murmured
with bloodless mouth, “How long will it be?”
“A long time, dearest—and you?”
“I can go home, and work,” she answered
briefly, “and wait for you, be it ten months
or ten years—and then—?”
“And then—” they stared into each other’s
eyes like frightened children. Suddenly his
form straightened up, and the vision of his
ideal irradiated his face with hope and hap-
piness.
“And then, Beloved,” he cried, “then we
will start all over again. Somewhere, I am
needed; somewhere in this world there are
wanted dark-skinned men like me to dig and
242
THE CRISIS
blast and build bridges and make straight
the roads of the world, and I am going to
find that place—with you.”
She smiled back trustfully at him. “Only
keep true to your ideal, dearest,” she whis-
pered, “and you will find the place. Your
window faces the south, Louis. Look up and
out of it all the while you are here, for it is
there, in our own southland,, that you will
find the realization of your dream.”
DON FRANCISCO

By CLARENCE BIXBY
Tj' OR several years past, the natives, Arner-
A icans and Europeans who drifted into
the prosperous province of La Union to
trade always returned to Manila with vari-
ous sized tales of Don Francisco, who had
“muchos caballos y era muy rico tambien,”
without even once giving a hint that the Don
was anything different from what the name
might imply—a full fledged and unadulter-
ated Castillano.
During all of these years it was naturally
supposed, from the title (beware of titles),
that the Don was a loyal subject of the
Spanish Crown; perhaps a remnant of the
Spanish army who had gone into the pro-
vince during the late reign of the Dons and
had acquirexl an undue share of the pro-
vince’s wealth by methods that belong to the
“Castillas” alone. But on my first visit to
La Union a few months ago, much to my
surprise and pleasure, I found, to the con-
trary, that the Don was not a Spaniard at
all, but a swarthy son of Ham who had gone
to the islands in 1899 as part and parcel of
the Army of Uncle Sam, from which he was
honorably separated in 1901.
I found him happily located in the capital
city of the province, San Fernando, living
in splendid state in one of its baronial bun-
galows and owning some three or four
others; a bachelor, surrounded by luxuries
and wTealth, books, pianos, costly furniture
and fixtures, a retinue of servants, some hun-
dred head of horses, native and imported;
mules, carabaos; bullcarts, w?agons, carro-
matas, automobiles, boats and, last but not
the least, he is the proud ppssessor of a bull-
clog.
It is told that while the Don was yet a
soldier he discovered the need of transporta-
tion in La Union and set about to fill the
want by purchasing a carromata and horse,
which he found profitable from the begin-
ning, his principal customers being bis fel-
low soldiers. This was the beginning of his
fortune. To his one carromata and horse he
added a condemned army mule and wagon,
and opened up a “narrow gauged” between
Camp Wallace and San Fernando, and so
Don Francisco and his transportation line
“grew and grew.”
He gathered and hauled to the post the
wood, water and grass for the quartermas-
ter’s department, hauled the soldiers to and
from the post, ns well as furnished trans-
portation to the neighboring towns. As the
years rolled by he gradually augmented his
rolling stock until to-day he has an absolute
corner on transportation, both land and
water, for the entire province; for as yet
there are no railroads in the province.
Besides being master of the situation so
far as transportation is concerned, Don
Francisco has entered other fields. He con-
ducts the only general merchandise store and
owns the only hotel to be found in the pro-
vince. He operates a carpenter and black-
smith shop in connection with his establish-
ment, and does a commission and brokerage
business.
“Don Francisco” as he is known through-
out La Union province, is none other than
Frank Smith, Jr., a modest, young colored
American, a native of the Buckeye State,
who attached himself to the Army of Occu-
pation, came to the Philippines and has re-
sided in them ever since.
Mr. Smith, through his thrift and energy,
has amassed a considerable fortune, his
wealth being estimated at $150,000. He
contemplates opening a garage and estab-
lishing branch merchandise stores in Nagui-
lan and Aringay, towns of the same pro-
vince.
If you ever visit the Philippines, go to
the province of La Union, and ask for “Don
Francisco.” You will neither regret the visit,
nor forget the acquaintance.

NATIONAL LEAGUE ON URBAN rTTT
CONDITIONS AMONG NEGROES
HE improvement of condi-
tions among rural Negroes
through the many agricul-
tural institutions, extension
courses and demonstration
stations, the funds estab-
lished for lengthening the
school year and better teaching methods in
the schools has been one of the achievements
of recent decades. The slowness with which
interested persons have been organized in
cities for improving the conditions among
urban Negroes is one of the many sad facts
of urban life. Delayed reforms frequently
are characterized by more energetic and
effective action than the long, drawn-out
campaign against the evils which seem to
feed and thrive on the attacking measures,
and also are greeted with quicker acceptance
and more generous recognition than the
older measures to which we have become so
accustomed, that they fail to make the appeal
to the need of our every-day life.
When,, during the spring of 1910, Mrs.
William IT. Baldwin, Jr., called representa-
tives of the many social-welfare organiza-
tions working among Negroes to a conference
at her New York City home, to consider
means of preventing duplication of effort
and overlapping of work, of promoting co-
operation among the agencies and of
establishing new organizations to improve
neglected conditions, a new era was reached
in the handling of the city problem as it
affected the Negroes.
From this meeting resulted the National
League on Urban Conditions Among
Negroes, whose work of uplift is now being
felt in ten cities, viz.: New York, Phila-
delphia, Pa., Norfolk, Va., Richmond, Va..
Nashville, Tenn., Louisville, Ky., St. Louis,
Mo., Savannah, Ga., Augusta, Ga., and
Atlanta, Ga., whose budget has increased
from $2,000 to $1S,000 per year and whose
staff of paid employees has increased from
one full-time and three part-time employees
to sixteen salaried persons in New York
City, three in Nashville and two in Norfolk.
In New York City the league has three
offices with telephone connections, two in
Manhattan, at 110 West 40th Street and
127 West 135th Street, and the third in
MRS. W. H. BALDWIN, FOUNDER.
Brooklyn, at 185 Duffield Street, which is
in charge of Paul F. Mowbray with Miss
Carrietta V. Owens as his associate.
The account of the activities of the Urban
League given below is concerned principally
with New York City; yet it will serve more
or less as a description of the work in other
cities, as the plans for movements in other
cities are similar to those in New York,
with proper allowance for the different local
conditions.
The problem of the city Negro is but the
accentuated counterpart of the problem of
all urban inhabitants. Segregation and the
consequent congestion, the evils of bad
housing conditions with their inevitable
accompaniment of dangerous sanitation and
loose morals, the lack of facilities for whole-
some recreation and the ill-regulated picture
shows and dance halls combine to make con-
ditions which demand instant relief. Add
to this a population constantly augmented
by Negroes from small towns or rural dis-
tricts of the South, and the problem of the
league is before you.
Co-operation and Prevention of
Duplication.
The most important achievement in the
effort to prevent duplication of work and to
inspire workers with a co-operative spirit
was the consolidation of the National League
244
THE CRISIS
MISS E. G. BURJLEIGH AT WORK.
for the Protection of Colored Women, the
Committee for Improving the Industrial Con-
dition of Negroes in New York and the
Committee on Urban Conditions Among
Negroes (the committee formed at Mrs.
Baldwin’s meeting) into the incorporated
National League on Urban Conditions
Among Negroes. Since this consolidation
there has been close co-operation with prac-
tically every agency in the city working for
colored people in the handling of numerous
cases of destitution, in securing employment
for worthy applicants, in getting knowledge
of the work of the organizations dis-
seminated through the community, in con-
ducting boys’ and- girls’ clubs, in making
investigations, in placing neglected children
in homes and in the securing of competent
social workers.
For two summers a central bureau of
fresh-air agencies was conducted. This
bureau kept on record a list of colored people
receiving fresh-air benefits for the use of
various co-operating agencies in order to
prevent “repeating.” This work is now
handled by tbe social-service exchange of the
Charity Organization Society.
Organizing or Conducting Needed
Agencies.
The league has sought to establish agencies
for uplift where needed. If no committee
could be found ready to take over and
conduct the particular undertaking, the
league has handled the movement through
its local office staff.
The Sojourner Truth house committee,
with Mrs. George W. Seligman as chairman,
has undertaken the task of establishing a
home' for delinquent colored girls under 16
3'ears of age, because of the failure of the
State and private institutions to care ade-
quately for these unfortunates. The league
made an investigation of this need and
formed a temporary committee from which
developed the present organization.
The league also inaugurated the movement
for the training of colored nursery maids.
A committee, of which Mr. Frank W. Barber
is chairman, has worked out the details
for courses of study in hospital training in
care of infants, kindergarten training, child
study and household arts.
During the summer of 1911 the league
conducted, in Harlem, a playground for
toys, for the purpose of demonstrating the
need of recreational facilities for the chil-
dren of Harlem. As a result of this move-
ment, and a continuous agitation for more
adequate play facilities, the city has prac-
tically committed itself to the operation of
a model playground on any plot of ground
THE HARLEM OFFICE.
THE URBAN LEAGUE
245
“BIG BROTHER” ALLISON AT WORK.
in the Harlem district, the use of which is
donated to the City Parks Department.
The travelers’ aid work, in charge of Miss
Eva G. Burleigh, has consisted principally
in the meeting of the coastwise steamers
bringing large numbers of women and girls
from Southern ports to New York City, who
are without acquaintance with methods of
meeting the competition of city life, and who
are frequently sent to New York to be
exploited by unreliable employment agents
or questionable men. The league supports
two travelers’ aid workers in Norfolk, Va.f
which is the gateway to the North for
hundreds of women and girls from Vir-
ginia and the Carolinas.
The preventive or protective work of the
league consists of the visiting in the homes
of school children who have become incor-
rigibles or truants, for the purpose of re-
moving the causes of these irregularities.
This work is in charge of Mrs. Hallie B.
Craigwell and Mr. Leslie L. Pollard.
Probation work with adults from the court
of geueral sessions is done by Mr. Chas. C.
Allison, Jr. In connection with this work
with delinquents the Big Brother and Big
Sister movements are conducted. The league
seeks to furnish to each boy or girl passing
through the courts the helpful influence and
guidance of a man or woman of high moral
character.
The league conducts a housing bureau for
the purpose of improving the moral and
physical conditions among the tenement
houses in Negro districts. It seeks princi-
pally to prevent the indiscriminate mixing
of the good and bad by furnishing to the
public a list of houses certified to be
tenanted by respectable people. It also seeks
to get prompt action of agents and owners
or the city departments whenever there is
need for correcting certain housing abuses.
This work is in charge of Mr. John T.
Clark.
A monthly conference of workers with
boys and girls has been organized. Through
this conference several neighborhood clubs
have been formed, among them the Utopia
Neighborhood Club, of which Mrs. Albert S.
Reed is president, and the Harriet Tubman
Neighborhood Club, of which Mrs. Marie
Jackson Stuart is president. The chairman
of the conference is Rev. F. A. Cullen, pastor
of Salem M. E. Church.
In connection with the fresh-air work the
boys’ camp has been established, at which,
during the last three years, more than 400
boys have been accommodated at an expense
of more than $3,000. This camp is super-
vised by Mr. William Lloyd Imes.
Industrial organizations are formed-
along occupational lines. Public porters,
mechanics (including carpenters, painters,
plasterers, paperhangers, etc.), elevator men
and hall men and chauffeurs have been
organized.
A vocational exchange, designed to refer
Negroes to opportunities for training along
vocational lines, and to refer applications for
help and for positions to reliable philan-
thropic and commercial employment agencies,
has been established, with Air. John D. Jones
in charge.
Training of Social Workers.
No human movement can move with
appreciative success without the propelling
impetus of a forceful personality. Social
work among Negroes has suffered not so
much from the lack of movements as from
the lack of conscientious, enthusiastic,
trained workers. This fact was emphasized
by Dr. George Edmund Haynes when,
shortly following Airs. Baldwin’s meeting,
he was employed as director of the organiza-
tion. The result was the establishment of
two annual fellowships at the New York
School of Philanthropy and Columbia
University, and scholarships at Fisk Uni-
versity, where Dr. Haynes holds the chair
of social science, and from which he seeks
to influence other Southern Negro colleges
to standardize their courses in sociology and
economics and to encourage promising
246
THE CRISIS
students to take up social work as a
profession.
Ineluding the two students, Miss Nellie
M. Quander and Mr. Chandler Owen, study-
ing last year in New York City, four
“fellows” have pursued courses of study
under the auspices of the league in New York
City, three of whom are laboring success-
fully in some field of social service. The
two fellows appointed for the next school
year are Mr. Alexander L. Jackson, class
orator of Harvard, 1914, and Mr. W. X.
Colson, 1914, class leader of Virginia Union
University.
Vision of Human Need and Efficiency in
Service.
On these two principles the National
League on Urban Conditions Among Negroes
is founded. It endeavors to select its
workers, raise its budget and direct and
extend its work with these guide posts to
its way toward the great goal of the real
freedom of opportunity to all.
The personnel of the executive board and
general membership of the league is a
guarantee of its integrity and strength. Its
officers are: Mrs. William H. Baldwin, Jr.,
chairman; Major R. R. Motou, of Hamp-
ton Institute, and Prof. Kelly Miller, of
Howard University, vice-chairmen; Mr. L.
Hollingsworth Wood, secretary; Mr. A. S.
Frissell, treasurer, and Mr. Victor H.
McCutcheon, assistant treasurer.
THE FRESH AIR CAMP OF THE URBAN LEAGUE.
i i A BOOK AND A PLAY ® m
In Freedoms Birthplace. A Study of the Bosto
-Negroes. John Daniels. Houghton, Mifflin Co., 191-
496 pages. Price $1.00 net.
There have been a number of books on the
Negroes in northern cities, but Mr. Daniels’
study of the Boston Negroes is unique in
form. It avoids statistics, save in the ap-
pendix, and is written in a loose narrative
style admirably adapted to the historical
section of the book. Here the writer renders
an important service in showing us the part
the Boston Negro played in the abolition
movement and in the civil war; and as in
DuBois’ “John Brown” we learn to know a
group of fearless colored Americans who -
were in the forefront of the long struggle
for the freedom of the slave. We also learn
in detail of the splendid records of the fifty-
fourth and fifty-fifth Massachusetts regi-
ments.
After the war we are told of the move-
ments in Boston for and against Booker T.
Washington’s doctrines, doctrines which Mr.
A BOOK AND A PLAY
247
Daniels whole-heartedly advocates, and of
the 1910 meeting in Zion church at which
William Monroe Trotter heckled Dr. Wash-
ington and for which Mr. Trotter suffered
imprisonment. The book then deals with
present-day statistical matters, and the style,
adapted to narrative, becomes discursive and
confused . It is difficult to find facts, mingled
as they are on every page with the writer’s
opinions. Nevertheless, by searching, we do
find much data regarding the Negro in his
church, in politics, in business—facts that
have been carefully gathered and are of im-
portance to the student of the progress of
the colored race. In the foot-notes and the
appendix are interesting sketches of prom-
inent colored men.
Mr. Daniels presents his opinions by mar-
shalling all the disagreeable characteristics
of the Boston Negro at the beginning of each
chapter and relating the race’s achievements
at the close. The method is unfortunate.
He assures us that “two inherent character-
istics of the Negroes are lack of self-reljance
and deficiency in the capacity* for social co-
operation,’* that their traits are “irresponsi-
bility, instability* and uu trustworthiness,”
and that “their present industrial standing
is roughly commensurate with their present
actual worth.” In short, that they lack in
“stamina.” However, after we have learned
this, we are assured that the Boston Negro
has little chance to show his ability, that “In
low-grade work a Negro finds it twice as
hard to obtain employment; in work of in-
termediary grade, such as the trades and
lesser clerical lines, from ten to fifty times
harder; and in the work of high-grade, such
as that of bank clerks, salaried officials of
business houses, and the like, a hundred
times harder than in the case with applicants
of the other race; and that furthermore
there are some occupations from which Ne-
groes are practically shut out.” And we end
the book with the writer’s astonishing ad-
mission, in view of what has gone before,
that “The assertion sometimes heard, indeed,
that history affords no other example of a
race which has made equal headway in its
half-century of independent existence, is
probably within the truth.” It is indeed a
bewildering method which the writer pursues.
The book leaves us with one strong im-
pression (an impression which the Crisis
reader must feel increasingly as he studies
each month’s issue), that even “In Freedom’s
Birthplace” rights given by those above can
be taken away by those above; and that only
those rights are permanent that are wrested
from the race in power by the race that is
oppressed. The battle for the Negro’s civil,
and political rights, therefore, which a few
far-seeing agitators and statesmen thought
they had won forty-five years ago must be
fought all over again by the Negroes them-
. selves when they shall awake to a realization
and an understanding of the oppression un-
der which they live.
“The Mob.” John Galsworthy. Charles Scribners’
Sons.
Galsworthy’s latest play is directed against
Imperialism. The scene is laid in England
on the eve of a war of conquest against a
primitive people. The hero, Stephen More,
a member of parliament is passionately op-
posed to the war while the men about him
favor it. In the first scene there is much
talk of the beneficience of British rule. One
of the characters, the Dean of Stour, says:
“Does our rule bring blessing—or does it
not, Stephen?”
Stephen answers: “Sometimes, but with
all my soul I deny the fantastic superstition
that our rule can benefit a people like this,
a nation of one race, as different from our-
selves as dark from light—in color, religion,
every mortal thing. We can only perverr
their natural instincts.”
Against the entreaties of his wife, his
father, his friends and constituents, More
takes a stand against imperialism. He
speaks his belief in parliament, on the lec-
ture platform and in the streets. His con-
stituents come to argue with liim. The Eng-
lish have lost a battle and he is asked to
remember the soldiers who died trying to
take the Pass. More replies with a picture
of the Englishman’s wrath should his coun-
try be invaded.
“Imagine! Up in our own country—the
Black Valley—twelve hundred foreign devils
dead and dying—the crows busy over them—
in our own country, our own valley—ours—
ours—violated. Would you care about the
poor fellows in that Pass? Invading, steal-
ing dogs! Kill them—kill them! You would
and I would too!”
He convinces his hearers for a moment,
and then through the open window comes
the sound of Highland bag pipes, and of
marching soldiers. The soldiers pass aud the
mob follows, crying: “Give the beggars
hell, boys!” “Wipe your feet on their dirty
country!” The men, stirred by the soldiery.
24$
THE CRISIS
demand that Alure bold bis peace- He cries:
“No,” and they leave him in anger.
The play moves to its inevitable tragedy.
The patriot who believes in ‘“that great coun-
try which shall never take toll from the
weakness of others," cries his message
against insolent boasting and needless
slaughter until the mob enters his house, and
be is silenced. He dies for his ideal.
M. W. 0.
b b THE BURDEN
WHAT IT COSTS A NEGRO TO GET
A PULLMAN BERTH FROM
LOUISVILLE, KY., TO
BIRMINGHAM, ALA.
SPINGARN and I were to speak in
Louisville on Sunday, July 5. It was
at a great sacrifice of home interests that I
could be there at that time. But, notwith-
standing that, I had to go at least twenty-
four hours earlier because I could not get a
berth than I should have had to go if I
could have gotten a berth from Birmingham
to Louisville. And so, going up, I left Birm-
ingham on Friday and reached Nashville by
night and stopped with friends in the city
until Saturday. This made me lose twenty-
four hours from very pressing work at home
—the cost of discrimination.
From Nashville I went to Louisville on
Saturday and as soon as I reached Louis-
ville I began to plan how I could get a berth
back to Birmingham, leaving Louisville Sun-
day night after speaking Sunday afternoon.
T knew that it would be dangerous for me
to sit up all night going back after standing
on my feet and lecturing for several hours
in Louisville (two engagements Sunday, P.
M.), and I knew, too, that I must be back
home on Monday for business reasons.
Sunday morning, as soon as I had eaten
breakfast, I started on the quest for Pull-
man accomodations, which quest, as you will
see, lasted until after 9:40 that night.
First the secretary of the colored Y. M. C.
A. and I went to the 10th St. Station and
bought my railroad ticket. Then we went
back to the Y. M. C. A. headquarters and
summoned a messenger from the Western
Union. We instructed the messenger to take
my railway ticket to the station and pur-
chase a Pullman ticket to Birmingham “for
party,” not giving name or color.
The boy came back empty handed, saying
that they did not sell Pullman tickets in the
station any more and that they must be got-
ten by the “party” as the party got on the
train. We suspected that perhaps the boy
had struck the same agent who had just sold
me the railway ticket.
We were baffled but not yet beaten: we
formed several new plans, one of which was
to send a “white Negro” for the tieket; an-
other was to send another messenger boy
later in the evening when that agent was off
duty; and another was to look up the assist-
ant passenger agent of the L & N. Railroad,
with whom the Y. M. C. A. secretary is ac-
quainted.
Meanwhile, I had missed morning church
services and Sunday-school, in this Pullman
ticket quest, and it was getting to be time
for the afternoon mass meeting when Mr.
Spingarn and I were to speak. I had spent
all of Sunday morning with all the ingenuity
I could summon, in efforts to cheat the pre-
judice of the white people out of the privi-
lege of buying this plain necessity of travel
As 1 sat waiting my turn to speak and see-
ing Mr. Spingarn delivering his great anti-
segregation address with the light of battle
in his eyes, a new idea and inspiration came
to me. I said, “I will get this tme man's
assistance in my present struggle for a sleep-
ing-car berth.”
After meeting I laid the matter before
him. We immediately set out for the sta-
tion. Mr. Spingarn went in; I stepped out-
side on the corner, so as not to lend too much
“color” to the situation. He came ont with
the same report, that Pullman tickets must
be bought on the car from the Pullman con-
ductor.
We knew that if* a black man went to buy
a Pullman ticket on the train the stereotyped
lie would be told him—“all space is taken”—
even though, as in my case, he had previous-
ly made a reservation by telephone. For
early in the day I had taken the precaution
to order over the telephone “lower number
six for William Pickene.” They could not
THE BURDEN
249
teU the eolur of my voic* &o they 'made the
reservation quite politely.
So it seemed that the battle was to be lost.
Most men would have given np the fight at
this stage but not Spin gam. He said, "I
will go to my hotel and send through them
for that ticket, and if they fail, look for me
here at the depot twenty minutes before the
train leaves.” They failed. I learned this
from the hotel over the telephone.
At 9:20, therefore, with two other ^con-
spirators,” the Y. M. C. A. secretary and the
colored pastor of the First Congregational
Church, I entered the depot to await the ap-
pearance of our energetic confederate, Joel
E.	Spingarn. He was the most determined
man I ever saw. With the fire of desperate
battle on his countenance, he said, "There is
just one way left,—the great American
proxy; you have your suitcase, hand me
your ticket and follow me.”
We passed the gate man, he said not a
word to me: he saw me bearing a white
man’s burden as he thought. We went
straight to the Pullman conductor: "Lower
number six for William Pickens,” said Spin-
garn. The conductor and porter politely ad-
mitted us,—heeding not me, the burden
bearer.
Inside my fellow conspirator handed me
the tickets, chuckled a mixture of triumph
and indignation and left the ear. Certain
passengers noticed and interpreted these last
movements, as I observed. My berth was
ready, so I retired. When the train was
moving on the conductor, having been en-
lightened by these observers, pulled aside the
curtains of my berth and with his diagram
in his hand and insolence in his voice de-
manded : ‘‘What is your name V9
"William Pickens,” said I, placidly.
“Well, you ain't the one that asked for
this reservation at the door.”
“No,” said I, “but I am the one for whom
it was asked, and I am the one who made
the reservation over the telephone.” This
silenced him. He accepted my two dollars
and fifty cents; I drew my curtains to and
slept until seven A. M.. within one hour and
a half of Birmingham.
By my fellow passengers 1 was eyed in
that strange mysterious way, peculiar to
Americans, as if a Negro was the rarest
sight on this continent,—but I was not ac-
costed. I learned from the porter that they
had gallantly informed the conductor of my
intrusion, soon after Mr. Spingarn left, and
that they had asked the porter how I could
be put out. Being informed that I had the
best of the game and that this was imprac-
ticable, they quieted down and discussed the
“race question” in their various corners.
The berth cost me: a messenger’s fee.
thirteen hours of work, worry and strategy,
my attendance at morning church services,
part of my dinner, part of my time for even-
ing address, the assistance of at least six
other persons, three trips to the station, and
the regular fares.
And yet they say that “Jim-Crowism” is
uo burden to the black man.
Wn.T.i.nf Pickens.
m
OPERA
“For the first time in the history of the
French Opera House—and it dates back
to 1859—the fourth gallery was set aside
for colored people at the matinee yester-
day, with the announcement from Manager
Afire and Secretary-Treasurer Durieu that
in future Sunday matinees will be given
with the ‘pit’ reserved for colored patrons.
"'And, incidentally, among the most ap-
preciativp listeners when *Faust’ was sung
yesterday afternoon were the colored peo-
ple in the fourth gallery. Quietly, but with
eagerness and enjoyment manifest through-
out the little group which extended across
the first row, they listened to the perform-
ance and enjoyed it as perhaps none of the
other opera lovers present.”—New Orleans
Picayune.
B
A LETTER.
T SAW on the editorial page of your New
Year Crisis a sketch of information
concerning forgotten, neglected and concealed
news. Between ten and eleven years of age
my father was murdered by two white men
on his way home. The law of the State of
Alabama did not take any step concerning
the matter. This left my mother with six of
us boys and no support. Can there be any-
thing done? One of the white men’s name
was Arthur Williams and the other name
has not been learned yet, but I expect to
learn it in a very short time. I am now 19
years of age and would like to hear from you
as soon as possible.”
250
THE CRISIS
FROM A WHITE SOUTHERNER.
Mr. Oswald G. Villard.
Dear Sir:
This letter is written to congratulate you
on your recent address at Baltimore, Md.,
before the National Association for the Ad-
vancement of Colored People.
All that you said was true, but you merely
touched the fringe of the truth as it actually
exists in the South. It is the egotistical
boast of the southern man that he knows
how to deal with the Negro, and that he
alone can solve the problem as it should be
solved. But, how does he propose to solve
it? One who has a thought for the future
actually blushes at his methods.
I am a southern-born man, a descendent
of an old slave-holding family, but 1 am
thankful to that Power from which emanates
the energy and intelligence of the world that
I have in me a spirit of fairness that is not
common in the South.
For the past six years I have been at work
in this state and in South Carolina. (I re-
gret, on account of the present governor,
that I am compelled to admit that I have
been a resident of South Carolina.) My
work has been that of a commercial secre-
tary, and I have had wide opportunity to
study the Negro situation by coming directly
in contact with it. I have no information at
second hand, and I want to say that the
world does not know how basely the Negro
is treated by the so-called knighthood of
Dixie. The dog and the horse, as a rule, are
treated with more consideration—particular-
ly the former—and neither of these animals
is robbed of his earnings by a commercial
arrangement that is- calculated to pull him
lower in the scale of existence. The abuses
of the Negro are too manifold, and cry too
loud for some one to make his treatment less
brutal, to be treated in a letter. A form of
peonage, not defined by the law, exists all
over the South—a most debasing custom that
fails in every particular to build along those
broad lines which mean so much in the final
analysis of things in this country. But the
Vardamans, the Tillmans, the Bleases, and
others ot’ their ilk—not one of them repre-
senting the test thought of the South—hold
up the Negro bugaboo and ride into the coun-
cils of the nation, and there use their little
power to make more debasing the circum-
stances which surround the Negro.
I have the data for hundreds of columns
of matter—not guess work but fact contain-
ing time, place and names, that 1 would like
to use. But being in the South and depen-
dent for my living in this country, where
laziness among the whites runs rampant (for
the Negro does all the work), I can not use
it. I would like to write what I have—in
fact, devote my entire life to the work—
treating with poise and consideration the
cause of the Negro of the South, but situated
as I am I can’t do so. But let me say that
some day the world will know; for God in
his infinite mercy will not permit things to
continue for all time as they are to-day.
Again let me say that I want to congrat-
ulate you on your address, and permit me
to ask you not to use the contents of this
letter other than in confidence. I am chair-
man of the ways and means committee at
my home and also master of exchequer, and
I have to guard the source of income until
I can see my way into a broader field. I am,
Yours very truly,
m
THE NAVY.
Y Dear Mr. Editor':
I am a reader of your valuable
magazine and I wish to make a few com-
ments in regard to Negroes in the navy, who
number about 4,000.
Much discrimination is on board ship and
at shore stations, but as we are not allowed to
make complaint to the department, what are
we to do for protection?
There are colored men on the engineer’s
force, mainly coal passers, firemen and some-
times oilers and second-class petty officers.
That is about as far as they go in that brand)
after spending the best portion of their lives
in the service simply because they don’t
want a Negro over a white man.
I am writing from experience, having
served eight years in the navy, even if Mr.
Daniels, Secretary of the Navy, flatly denied
the charge against the recruiting officers of
using fraud to keep colored men out of the
navy.
A colored man in the navy is barred from
all athletic sports, and if he has a trade and
applies for enlistment in the navy he is told
that there is no vacancy and advised to en-
list in the messman branch; even there he
has little chance on account of Japanese and
Filipinos. My advice to every young colored
man is to stay out of the navy.
Yours respectfully,
An ex-Navy Man.
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
251
THE ANNUAL
Child ren s Number
The most popular number of the CRISIS is the
Children s Number.
This will be the OCTOBER number, which will
be published September 20.
All pictures of babies must reach us by SEPTEM-
BER FIRST. We want babies of all hues and
kinds. Send the pictures early and mark them
plainly on the back in ink.
If you want the pictures returned, be sure and send
return postage.
TEACHERS—ATTENTION!
Competent teachers can secure good positions in the South. The demand tor teachers who can hold
positions as Principals or Department Heads is greatly in excess of the supply. We make it our business to
find the place for you that you have prepared yourself to fill. Send stamp for further information with
registration blank and contract. Address:
TEXAS COLORED TEACHERS’ AGENCY, P. 0. Box D 1099, DALLAS, TEXAS
Big Pay for Easy Work
If You Live in a Small Town
Wo want 5000agents—5000 brlcht^youngmen will-
ing to hustle and earn S5.00 to $15.00 a day soiling
our lino hand-made-to-mcasuro clothes. This throws
open ono good job in every community or town of
not over 10.000 poople.
To tho first man in your town who writes
us, will bo given the first opportunity to get
our COMPLETE SAMPLE OUTFIT FREE.
You need no experience, but start right
out making money—S2.00 to S9.00 profit on
every suit you soil. WHOLESALE PRICES
for Suita S7.9S to S2S.00-Pants S2.J8 to $6.50
Wo prepay tho postage or express on
every shipment.
Every garment is made-to-ordor
and strictly hand tailored. SATIS-
FACTION GUARANTEED OR
YOUR MONEY BACK.
To prove to you tho unequalled
quality of our tailoring, wo will..,
let yon ordor a Sample Suit or *'!
oven a pair of Pants at the wholesale price.
Romombor. wo want only one agent In each town.
Somcono olno from your town may write us tomor-
row—so don't dolay —out mull your letter today.
The Chicago Tailors’ Association
Dopt. 9 ?6 Van Buren and Market Sts., CHICAGO
THE ASHBURN BROTHERS
SHIRT MANUFACTURING CO.
INCORPORATED
LYNCHBURG, VA.
Makers of Plain and Fancy Shirts
DIRECT DISTRIBUTION
One or more from factory to consumer
Famous our New Comer Shirt Samples
WANTED
Agents for THE CRISIS. Dignified work.
70 Fifth Avenue, New York.
Mention Thk Cxjsis
252
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
SCHOOL OF BEAUTY CULTURE AND HAIR DRESSING
Kelsey** Hair Dressing, Hair Grower, Scalp Tonic and Face Lotion have no equal. Price, 50c. each.
Guaranteed under Food and Drug Act, June 30, 1906.
KELSEY’S
Telephone, Morningside 8162
143 West 131st St.
NEW YORK
Manicuring, Shampooing, Hair Dressing, Marcel War-
ing. Facial and Body Massage, Hair Making, Chiropody,
etc., scientifically taught. Unlimited practice in parlor
day and night. Pupils taught at home, if desired.
Diplomas. Special. Summer Course, $7.50 up. Send for
booklet. Mine. A. Carter Kelsey, Gen’l Instr.; Dr. Samuel
A. Kelsey, Chiropodist, President and Gen’l Manager.
TEACHERS
The new efficiency era calls
for 'the modern way of
•electing teachers, through a lire agency that furnishes
the connecting medium in a business way, saves time
of school officials, relieves teachers of the embarrass-
ment of job hunting and covers the whole country.
We have had calls for teachers from Alabama,
Arkansas, Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida,
Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Mis-
sissippi, Missouri, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Rhode
Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia
and West Virginia.
Our list of teachers covers even a wider territory.
THE MUTUAL TEACHERS’ AGENCY
1335 T Street, N. W.
Washington, D. C.
Only
$65.00
No. 24 Southern Buggy
Highest Grade
A Value Unequaled. Sold on Ji-oo
Pro6t Margin
Factory to User
Write for prices
and other styles.
Send for caUlogr
C. R. PATTERSON
Ml SONS.
Greenfield. Ohio
Largest Negro Carriage concern In the United States.
Start a Mail Order Business and Make Money
You can operate in your own home during spare
time. The parcel post has opened up the doors of
opportunity to YOU. Others are making $20 to $500
a week. Why can’t you? By our method you can
start with $5 and up. We offer you thirty live,
money-making mail order plans. You can make 95
cents profit of every dollar order. We furnish cir-
culars, printed matter and place your advertising at
lowest rates. Send 10 cents for complete outfit. Do
it today—Nowl
MAIL DEALERS WHOLESALE HOUSE
517 Dearborn Street	Chicago, 111.
RELIABLE, LIVE,
RESPONSIBLE MEN
	A Beautiful
	Switch like this
	’75c.
	Genuine Creole
,	hair to match your
	own.
■	■	J '	Send shade and
*:	• Vi v <L' . .	money today.
.	Ask for illustrated
	catalog of hair goods and toilet
	articles. It’s free.
	Wig.
	Transformation.
	Braid. Cosmetic.
	We guarantee satisfaction
The Society Manufacturing Co.	
Anderson, Indian*	
$25.00 PER WEEK
may be made in commissions by parties handling
“History of Negro Soldiers in Spanish-American
War” combined with "History of the Negro Race.
400 pages, 50 illustrations. Price $1.25 net.
Address:	E. A. JOHNSON
154 NaSsau Street	NEW YORK
who can sell real estate can MAKE MORE
than $200 PER MONTH acting as AGENTS
for the sale of our properties in MUSKOGEE
and TAFT, OKLAHOMA. The real coming
country where there are opportunities and
openings for all. Write us to-day, giving
your age and experience, and we will offer
you a FINE PROPOSITION WHICH
WILL MAKE YOU MONEY. Address
REEVES REALTY CO.
Department C
217 Flynn-Ames Bldg. Muskogee, Okla.
REGALIA _______________
Race Enterprise
Manufacturing Badges,
Banners and Supplies
for all Fraternal and
Church Societies. Cat-
alog upon request.
CENTRAL REGALIA CO
Jo*. L. Jone*, Prc*.
N. E. Corner 8th and Plum Street*, Cincinnati Ohio
Mention The Ckisis
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
253
* * That Indian Summer Time9 *
The Autumn Exposition and Amusement Festival
MANHATTAN CASINO AND PARK
155th Street and Eighth Avenue, New York City
September 28-29-30 and October 1-2, 1914
The Most Stupendous Amusement and Advertising Affair and the First and Only Thing of its Kind
ever Offered by our People. Write, call or telephone for circulars of particulars.
If you are tn business, exhibit or advertise at the Exposition.
Jf you enjoy amusements, come to the Exposition. You’ll ftnd the best.
ROGERS & CORKER, Publicity Committee-TeWfco-e Aidikoa S52-Manhattan Casino Building
Atlanta University
Studies of the
Negro Problems
17 Monographs	Sold Separately
Address
ATLANTA UNIVERSITY CONFERENCE
ATLANTA UNIVERSITY s ATLANTA. GA.
The Curse of Race Prejudice
By James F. Morton, Jr., A. M.
An aggressive exposure by an Anglo-Saxon cham-
pion of equal rights. Startling facts and crushing
arguments. Fascinating reading. A necessity for
clear understanding and up-to-date propaganda. Be-
longs in the library of every friend of social justice.
Price 25 cents.- Send orders to
JAMES F. MORTON, JR.
211 West 138th Street	New York, N. Y.
INSTRUCTIVE — INTERESTING — ATTRACTIVE
Every Home, School, Educator should have the
Negro in American History
Contains 296 pages, 35 chapters, historical and
biographical; 17 full-page illustrations; printed
on fine antique book stock, bound in full extra
cloth, gold title on front and back.
Price $1.25 net; pottift 15 cents additions!. Ordered
tkroaxh any bookseller or direct from tbe author.
J. W. CROMWELL, 1439 Swann St., Washington, D. C.
Agents Wanted
A NEW WAY
To Get Your Clothes Free
A NEW PLAN TO MAKE
BIG MONEY DURING
YOUR SPARE TIME
Something different — better,
bigger, more liberal than any
offer ever made. Lower
prices—better clothes—
bigger cash profits—Ex-
press paid on everything.
Double Pay
FREE clothes and cash profits
besides. We don’t ask you
to use your cash profits for
your own clothes. Ours is a
new and better plan.
An Extra Present with every order. Not a prize
scheme. Choose what you want, work for it and get
it besides your Cash Profits. Agent** Com-
plete Outfit FREE, fifty-six stylish, real cloth
samples—fifty Fashion Plates. Inside wholesale
prices. Everything FREE. Get into the big
money-making class. Just put your name on a
post card and mail it to us today.
SPENCER MEAD CO., Dept. 620, Chicago
MANY MORE TEACHERS
are needed to supply the demands upon us. Hundreds of
experienced or well-prepared teachers can join us to their
advantage. We can place you if you can be placed.
THE NATIONAL TEACHERS* AGENCY
B. F. BOWLES. Manager
2739 CONVERSE AVE. EAST ST. LOUIS. ILL.
DO YOU BUY BOOKS?
See Special List, Page 259
Ship your Yam Sweet Potatoes, Poultry, Eggs and other Farm Products to
GHOLSON & COMPANY
THE MOST RELIABLE PRODUCE HOUSE	1532 South St-, Philadelphia, Pa.
Mention The Crisis
254
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
MILES M. WEBB
School of Practical Photography
All branches o
Terms reasonable.
Three courses: Amateur, intermediate,
professional. Register now.
3519 So. State Street Chicago, III.
Telephone Douglass 6688
HOTEL COMFORT AND CAFE
Open all the Year
Corner Second Street and Bay Avenue
Ocean City, New Jersey
Mrs. M. B. Comfort, Proprietress.
Beautiful location, .fine view of Great
Egg Harbor Bay, the Inlet and the At-
lantic Ocean. Boating, bathing, fishing
and tennis. Thirty minutes to Atlantic
City by electric cars or steamboats.
GEORGIA STATE COLORED FAIR
NOVEMBER 18-2S, 1914
Wants Colored Entertainera
$5000.00 IN PREMIUMS
Write R. R. WRIGHT, President, SAVANNAH, GA.
?Agen^$60 WEEKLY
Rohloson Fold’ng Bath Tub. Hit; seller. Coat* Iittlo,
y no plumbing, littlo water. Weight 10 pound*,
fold* into small roll. Full length Lathi, far Iwltcr
than tin Guanntaad 10 jcar*. 110 a day aailly mult. Write
for free tub offer. Uoblaaoa Catlbat Mlj. Co., 3V4F*£U/ri*aliUlg,,Toltdo>0.
§5>75
22 A DAY FOR
YOUR SPARE TIME
Wo pay binder Caab Profit* than any
other Hou*e. Many of our agents aro
making $10 ■ day In tbair spare timo,
while doing other work.
If you want to make more
monoy than you ever did
before, bo a PROGRESS
agent. Write for our
astounding offer.
MADE-TO - MEASURE
Peg Top
PANTS
E*prwM> Prepaid
Quality, fit and work-
'manship guaranteed.
Cut in latest stylo, noth-
ing to equal this price.
MADE-TO-MEASURE
$000 Two Piece
©up SUIT
Capras Prepaid
Splendid materials. High
Cluss trimmings and work-
manship. Laieit city style*.- __
Every garment GUARANTEED
our Prices the Lov/csi
Nothing to equal them. With our
'low prices you can boat anything
ever offered—SUCCESS ASSURED. Our
clothes sail thomsolvos. A genuine snap—
no oxporienca or monsy nooded—not a
single cent—everything to start you out FREE.
64 real cloth samples, 60 fashion plates and
everything needed to make a howling *uccm«.
Start in now and make big monoy right from
the jump. Write today for FREE outfit and
full particulars how to moho $10 a day.
Progress Tailoring Co. Depl. 1S2 Chicago
Amcrxca'm Oldest and Largest Cash Tailoring House
COMPLETE OUTFIT FREE
CREOLE HAIR
/SWITCHES
at
4%,.
These goods are all made of nat-
ural crimped Creole hair, either
very black or dark brown.
We do not sell the cheap quality
switches sold by other		houses.
1 stem	switch	45c.
3-'4 oz.	3 stem -	95c.
22 inch switch -		$1.40
24 “	<<	1.85
26 “	<<	2.40
28 “	a	2.85
We awe the largest Hair Importers in the World.
Samples of your Hair. Perfect match assured,
refunded if not satisfactory.
Send Us Your Order TO-DAY.
Send us
Money
pAVUEV UDA6 1841 wabash ave
tUNIHLI (DIU/W.DEPT i ) CHICAGO
Mention Tei Crisis
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
255
The Story of Wendell Phillips
By
CHARLES EDWARD RUSSELL
“The Story of the Great Abolitionist
by a Modern Abolitionist”
(Ready October 1st)
Price 50 Cents
CHARLES H. KERR & CO., Publishers
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
PRINTING AND ENGRAVING
We are especially prepared to print
Catalogs of Institutions, Reports
of Institutions and Organizations
Books, Pamphlets and Programs
Superior Workmanship Prompt Attention
We Print THE CRISIS
ROBERT N. WOOD, Printing and Engraving
202 EAST 99th STREET	Telephone: Lenox 6667	NEW YORK
Mention The Crisis
256
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
NOTABLE BOOKS
written by
Members of the Board of Directors
of the
National Association for the Advancement
of Colored People
These books may be obtained from
THE CRISIS, 70 Fifth Avenue, New York
Prices do not include postage. Postage extra.
Jane Addams
DEMOCRACY AND SOCIAL ETHICS
$125
THE NEWER IDEALS OF PEACE.. $125
THE SPIRIT OF YOUTH AND THE CITY
STREETS .................. $125
TWENTY YEARS AT HULL HOUSE
$1.50
A NEW CONSCIENCE AND AN AN-
CIENT EVIL ................... $1.00
The Macmillan Co.
No one in this country has come closer to the
problems held out by poverty than has Miss Addams.
—Philadelphia Public Ledger.
Thomas Ewing, Jr.
JONATHAN: A Tragedy. Funk and Wag-
nails Co............................$1.00
The tragedy is imaginative, and in its style and
tone evinces a strong command of poetic diction. It
recalls Byron's ‘Cain’ in its noble handling of Bible
characters.
—How to know the Books, Philadelphia.
John Haynes Holmes
THE REVOLUTIONARY FUNCTION OF
THE MODERN CHURCH. G. P. Put-
nam's Sons .....................$1.50
An earnest, rational and illuminating presentation
of practical conclusions as to the social duty of the
church.	—New York Times.
MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE...............
B. W. Huebsch ..............$0.50
Mr. Holmes’s view comes as near offering a solu-
tion of this problem as any that we are ever likely
to reach.	—Rochester Herald.
W. E. Burghardt DuBois
THE SOULS OF BLACK FOLK
A. C. McClurg & Co......... $125
THE QUEST OF THE SILVER FLEECE
A. C. McClurg & Co..........$1-35
JOHN BROWN
George W. Jacobs & Co......$125
THE SUPPRESSION OF THE SLAVE
TRADE—Longmans, Green & Co...$1.50
THE PHILADELPHIA NEGRO
University of Pennsylvania Press.. $2.00
Professor DuBois possesses a command over the
finer qualities of English which greatly enhances the
poignancy and pathos, the yearning and hope of hi*
terrible indictment.	—The London Academy.
Archibald H. Grimke
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON: The Aboli-
tionist ....................... $1.50
CHARLES SUMNER: The Scholar in Poli-
tics ..........................$1.50
American Reformers Series. Funk and
Wagnalls.
These volumes are written in a clear, straightfor-
ward style, and are admirably adapted for the home
library.
Florence Kelley
MODERN INDUSTRY: In Relation to the
Family, Health, Education,	Morality.
Longmans, Green & Co.............$1.00
The writer has been Chief State Factory Inspector
of Illinois, living many years at Hull House and the
Nurses’ Settlement and serving, since 1889, as Secre-
tary of the National Consumers’ League. She sets
forth changing social and industrial conditions seen at
close range, and suggests immediate hopes and plans
related thereto.
Mention The Cxisis
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
257
Mary White Ovington
HALF A MAN: The Status of the Negro in
New York. Longmans, Green & Con $1.00
A sane, wise and sympathetic study.
—Evening Post.
HAZEL: The Story of a Little Colored Girl.
Crisis Publishing Co..............$1.00
Any child, regardless of race or color, would be
interested in the little book.
—Brooklyn Daily Eagle.
William A. Sinclair
THE AFTERMATH OF SLAVERY: A
Study of the Condition and Environment
of the American Negro. Small, May-
nard & Co...............................$1.65
The perusal of this work may be urged upon every
fair minded man.	.	.
—Thomas Wentworth Higginson.
Moorfield Storey
CHARLES SUMNER: American Statesmen
Series. Houghton, Mifflin Co..........$1.25
The majestic devotion of Sumner to the highest
political ideals before and during his long term of
lofty service to freedom in the United States is
fittingly delineated by Mr. Storey.
THE REFORM OF LEGAL PROCEDURE
Yale University Press ...............$1.35
Oswald Garrison Villard
JOHN BROWN: A Biography, Fifty Years
After. Houghton, Mifflin Company..$5.00
I can only say after reading from first to last its
more than 700 pages, that I have never encountered
anything this side of Gibbon’s ‘Rome’ which has
made me feel more the personal power of a single
work.
—Thomas Wentworth Higginson.
Charles Edward Russell
THOMAS CHATTERTON: The Marvelous
Boy. Moffat, Yard & Co.....$2.00
LAWLESS WEALTH
B. W. Dodge & Co............$1.50
SONGS OF DEMOCRACY
Moffat, Yard & Co..........$1.00
WHY I AM A SOCIALIST
The George H. Doran Co.....$0.50
BUSINESS, THE HEART OF THE NA-
TION. John Lane Co..........$025
Mr. Russell’s books show him as a great journalist,
a poet and a devoted worker and writer for socialism.
Joel E. Spingam
THE NEW CRITICISM. Columbia Uni-
versity Press ...................$0.75
THE NEW HESPERIDES, AND OTHER
POEMS. Sturgis & Walton Company
$1.00
The author of The New Hesperides has already
proved himself a critic of a very high order in a
lecture on The New Criticism. We very gladly recog-
nize the many fine qualities which proclaim him to
be a true poet.
—London Academy.
John Garrett Underhill
SPANISH LITERATURE IN TUDOR
ENGLAND. The Macmillan Co....$2.00
A learned and important contribution to the history
of the literary and historical relations between Eng-
land and Spain at the height of Spanish influence and
power.
—Manchester (England) Guardian.
William English Walling
SOCIALISM AS IT IS. The Macmillan Co.,
$2.00
The best book on Socialism by any American, if
not the best book on Socialism in the English langu-
age.
—Boston Herald.
PROGRESSIVISM AND AFTER. The
Macmillan Co.........................$1.50
The roost stimulating and thought-provoking book
on purely economic topics we have ever read.
—Boston Transcript.
Mention The Crisis
258
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
LEGAL DIRECTORY
Telephones:
HARRY E. DAVIS
AtTORHEY-AT-Law	NOTARY PUBLIC
1607 Williamson Building	Cleveland, Ohio
Office L. D. Telephone 3297 Market
Residence U D. Telephone 5277-M Market
GEORGE A. DOUGLAS
CotTHSXLOR-AT-LjkW
Rooms 613-614, Metropolitan Building
113 Market St., Cor. Washington, Newark, N. J.
General Practice	Notary Public
WILLIAM R- MORRIS
Attorney and Counsxxor-at-Law
1020 Metropolitan Life Building
Minneapolis	Minn
BROWN S. SMITH
Attorney ajtd Counsklor-at-Law
Offices: Suite 610, Sykes Block
Minneapolis	Minn
GEORGE W. MITCHELL
Attorney-at-Law
908 Walnut Street
Philadelphia	Pa.
TeL 5437 Fort Hill	Cable Address, Epben
EDGAR P. BENJAMIN
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
34 School Street	Boston, Mass.
Telephone Connection
W. Ashbie Hawkins	George W. F. McMechen
HAWKINS & McMECHEN
Attorneys-at-Law
21 East Saratoga Street	Baltimore, Md.
Phones: Office, Bell 4059; New 420-M
Residence, New 733-A
THOS. E. GREENE, JR.
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Notary Public
Maloney Block	Youngstown, Ohio
B. F. BOOTH
Attorn et-at-La w
57 N. Second Street
Memphis	Tenn.
THOMAS W. HOLMES
Attorn ey-at-Law
43J4 Decatur Street	A#anta, Georgia
PERSONAL CARDS
Telephone 5277 Momingside
DR. GERTRUDE E. CURTIS
Surgeon Dentist
188 W. 135th Street	New York City
WILLIAM L BELL
Architect
138Auburn Avenue	Atlanta, Ga.
E. ALDAMA JACKSON
Graduate Institute of Musical Art, Organist and Director
of Music St. Mark’s M. EL Church
Teacher of Theory and Piano
Theory course embraces elementary and advanced
Harmony or Counterpoint.
Private or Class Work
Studio:	W. 132d STREET. NEW YORK CITY
J.	E. ORMES
ACCOUNT ANT
Audits	Systems
Business information by mail. Open for
engagements July and August
Box 25, Wilberforce University
Wilberforce, O.
Ms. Alfred Elis Du Bois, comracrciaragcnt
at Jeremie, Haiti, offers his services for all
kinds of business and exportation and im-
portation between Haiti and the United States.
Telephone 4214 Greeley
BRANIC’S EXPRESS
ANDREW J. BRANIC, PRorRirrOR
Packing and Shipping—Goods Forwarded to All Parts
of the World
Orders by mail or ’phone receive prompt attention.
Trunks stored, 25c. per month.
459 Seventh Avenue	New York
PROFITABLE SPARE TIME WORK
Colored agents wanted to take orders for our high
grade calling cards. Big demand everywhere. Ex-
clusive territory. Write now for samples and terms.
THE HOUSE OF CHOWNING. Indianapolis. Ind.
The mother of “R. P. H.M wishes to know
his whereabouts. Write :
S. J. CREWS, PORT CHESTER. N. Y.
Advertising Sales Agents Wanted at Once
Young men and women. Previous experience un-
necessary. Liberal pay while you learn. Permanent
position. Opportunity for advancement. An inde-
pendent income. Brilliant opportunity for trustworthy
young men and women. Vacancies are limited.
Answer immediately. Must have representatives in
every city and town in U. S. where not yet repre-
sented. Act quickly. Write at ONCE, enclosing 10
cents for full instructions and informatfdn. Address
Employment Department.
WATERS BROS.,
97 Wickliffe St.,	Newark, N. J., U. S. A
Mention The Crisis
A Selected List of Books
These prices do not include postage. Postage extra.
The Quest of the Silver Fleece. (W. E. B. Du Bois).......... $1.35
House Behind the Cedars. (Charles \Y. Chesnutt)............. 1.50
Hazel. (Mary White Ovington)................................. 100
The Autobiography of ax Ex-Colored Max. (Anonymous).........	1.20
Lyrics of Lowly Life. (Paul Laurence Dunbar)................ 1.25
The Marrow of Traditiox. (Charles \V. Chesnutt)............. 1.50
The Sport of the Gods. (Paul Laurence Dunbar) .............. 1.50
Xorris Wright Cuxey. (Maud Cuney Hare)...................... 1.50
A Narrative of the Negro.	(Leila Amos Pendleton)........... 1.50
Souls of Black Folk. (W.	E. B. Du Bois)................... 1.25
Race Adjustmext. (Kelly	Miller).......................... 2.00
History of the Negro. (B. G. Brawley)....................... 1.25
Half a Max. (Mary White Ovington)........................... 1.00
Mind of Primitive Max. (Franz Boas)......................... L50
Aftermath of Slavery. (William Sinclair).................... 1-50
Johx Browx. (W. E. B. Du Bois).............................. L25
Liberia. (Frederick Starr).................................. 1-00
Facts of Reconstruction.	(John R. Lynch).................. 1.50
Story of the Negro. 2 Volumes. (Booker T.	Washington).......	3.00
Masterpieces of Negro Eloquexce. (Alice Moore Dunbar, Editor) 2.50
Poems of Paul Laurence Dunbar............................... 2.00
The African Abroad. 2 Volumes. (William H. Ferris).......... 5.00
Afro-American Folksongs.	(H. E. Krehbiel)................. 2.00
Out of the House of Bondage. (Kelly Miller)................. 1.50
The Colored Inventor. (Henry E. Baker).........................15
A Child's Story of Dunbar. (Julia L. Henderson)................25
Address
THE CRISIS
70 Fifth Avenue	::	::	New York City
Mention Tub Cbisis
. ■
••

f w
m,Z i
■•;V; ; t ,_: \l 3 }J * ■“■ ■*	• . • Ktf-'-r-i *
*i: :?iiliitil;;;;| • {g
CAPE MAY, N. J.
This magnificent hotel, located in the heart of the most beautiful seashore resort in the world;
replete with every modern improvement, superlative in construction, appointments, service, and refined
patronage. Orchestra daily. Garage, bath houses, tennis, etc., on premises. Special attention given to
ladies and children. Send for booklet.	E. W. DALE. Owner.
Provident Hospital and Training School
for Colored Nurses
Aim: To keep its technic equal to the best
Founded 1891
The first training school for colored
nurses in this country, Freedman’s
excepted.
Comprises a training school for
nurses, hospital, dispensary, and
thoroughly equipped children’s depart-
ment; when funds are ample, post-
graduate work may be undertaken.
The hospital is open to all. The
races co-operate in the board of
trustees, in the medical staff and in
administration; the institution is the
only one of its kind in which a colored
man may act as interne.
Cost of buildings and equipment,
$100,000; free from debt. Endowment,
$50,000, contributed mostly by wills
made by colored men. Additional en-
dowment needed, $50,000.
The nurses* course covers three
years; training and instruction given
by both races, according to the highest
modern standards.
Mention The Crisis
ONE DOLLAR A YEAR
TEN CENTS A COPY
“Out of the House of Bondage”
The latest and greatest book from the pen of
PROFESSOR KELLY MILLER
“No man of his race has so sure a power of prunning falacies with passionless
intellectual severity.”—Boston Transcript.
“The man searches deeply into underlying causes.”—St. Joseph, Mo., News-Press.
“A philosophic treatise.”—Charlotte, N. C., Observer.
“No student of social conditions of America at the present time will want to fail to see
it on his shelves.”—Southern Workman.
242 Pages. Price $1.50.
Agents Wanted Everywhere
Address: Prof. KELLY MILLER, Howard University
Washington, D. C.
PRINTING AND ENGRAVING
We are especially prepared- to print
Catalogs of Institutions, Reports
of Institutions and Organizations
Books, Pamphlets and Programs
Superior Workmanship Prompt Attention
We Print THE CRISIS
ROBERT N. WOOD, Printing and Engraving
202 EAST 99th STREET	Telephone: Lenox 6667	NEW YORK
Mention The Cbibis
THE CRISIS
A RECORD OF THE DARKER RACES
PUBLISHED BY THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE. AT 70 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK CITY
Conducted by
W. E. BURGHARDT DU BOIS
AUGUSTUS GRANVILLE DILL. Business Manager
Contents for October, 1914
PICTURES
COVER. Photograph from Life. By C. M. Battey.	Page
ONE OF MANHATTAN’S “FINEST”........................ 269
MOTHERS IN COUNCIL............................... 285-8
FREDERICK DOUGLASS III............................. 296
And eighty-six other pictures of colored babies.
ARTICLES
MOTHERS IN COUNCIL................................. 285
THE FAIRY GOOD WILLA. A Story. By Minnibelle Jones. 294
A LULLABY. A Poem. By Cora J. Ball Moten........... 296
WAR..............................i............... 297
OUR BABY PICTURES.................................. 298
OUR PUZZLE BOX..................................... 304
DEPARTMENTS
ALONG THE COLOR LINE............................... 267
MEN OF THE MONTH................................... 274
OPINION............................................ 277
EDITORIAL ......................................... 289
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE.................................. 291
THE LETTER BOX..................................... 301
TEN CENTS A COPY; ONE DOLLAR A YEAR
FOREIGN SUBSCRIPTIONS TWENTY-FIVE CENTS EXTRA
RENEWALS: When a subscription blank is attached to this page a renewal of your subscrip-
tion is desired. The date of the expiration of your subscription will be found on the wrappcn
CHANGE OF ADDRESS: The address of a subscriber can be changed as often as desired.
In ordering a change of address, both the old and the new address must be given. Two weeks'
notice is required.
MANUSCRIPTS and drawings relating to colored people are desired. They must be accom-
panied by return postage. If found unavailable they will be returned.
Entered or Second-class Matter in the Post Office at New York, N. Y.
264
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
1875 &talr Agrirultural anil ffirrljattiral Qhilbg? fnr £fogro*£ 19
Normal, Alabama
A. combination hard to beat. A thorough English Education combined zvith a Trade.
WHAT TRADE WOULD YOU LIKE TO TAKE T
Trades for Boys, 12 Trades for Girls, 7 Trades for both sexes, 2
STATE AND UNITED STATES APPROPRIATIONS
Property consists of 182 acres of land, 20 buildings for all purposes, live stock and general
equipment valued at $160,500.
SUMMARY OF OUR GRADUATES-1875-1914
		 1,020
		 	 88
		 533
		 276
		 1,917
WHAT THEY ARE DOING
Principals of district	schools.................. 156
Teachers in rural schools....................... 263
Principals of secondary or	high schools.......... 12
Teachers in grammar	and	high schools........ 75
Doctors ......................................... 30
Lawyers .......................................... 5
Dentists ......................................... 5
Pharmacists ...................................... 3
Druggists ....................................... 10
Working at Trades .............................. 246
BanKeis .......................................... 3
United States Government Service
Jcanes teacher*. .................
Directors of book establishments ..
Editors and Journalists...........
Bookkeepers ......................
United States Farm Demonstrators
Undertakers and Embalmers ........
Contractors and Builders .........
United States Bureau of Education
Farmers .......;..................
Housekeepers .....................
WHAT ARE YOU PREPARING TO DO?
25
7
2
8
15
1
5
8
1
326
480
DEPARTMENTS
Primary, Grammar, High School, College, Mechanic Arts, Agricultural Science, Home Economics, Commercial
Arts, Music and Nurse Training. Catalog free.
WALTER S. BUCHANAN, Presidont.
The Cheyney Training School for Teachers
CHEYNEY, PENNSYLVANIA
Under the management of the Society of Friends. Beautifully lodated,
healthful, well appointed, and within easy reach of a great variety of educa-
tional institutions, public and private, extending from West Chester to
Philadelphia; representing a wide range of educational problems and
practice.
This school offers to young colored men and women who have a reasonable
secondary school preparation, and who earnestly desire to become teachers,
carefully graded courses in academic work, domestic science, domestic art,
manual crafts and agriculture. For teachers of experience and intending
teachers it offers also a six weeks’ summer-school course during the months
of-July and August. Tuition is free. Board, lodging, heat, light and
laundry privileges are offered for nine months for $100. The charge for
the same during the summer-school course is $15. Write for particulars to
LESLIE PINCKNEY HILL, Principal
Mention The Ckibis
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
265
The National Religious Training School
“I cordially commend the school's interest and needs to all who believe
in the Negro race and in our obligation to help promote its intellectual, moral
and religious uplift.”
'	—Rev. Dr. Charles H. Parkhurst, New York City.
IT IS MORE THAN A MERE SCHOOL
IT IS A COMMUNITY OF SERVICE AND UPLIFT
Its influence is destined to be felt in all sections of the country in improved
Negro community life wherever our trained workers locate.
Settlement workers, missionaries for home and foreign mission fields, Y. M. C. A.
and Y. W. C. A. secretaries and district nurses receive a comprehensive grasp of their
studies under a Wellesley graduate and experienced co-workers and actual every-day
practice through the school’s SOCIAL SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
We aim also to create a better qualified ministry.
Industrial training, advanced literary branches, business school.
Thirty-two acres; ten modern buildings; healthful location.
We can accommodate a few more earnest, ambitious students.
Communities requiring social workers should write us.
For catalog and detailed information address:
PRESIDENT JAMES E. SHEPARD
National Religious Training School	Durham, N. C.
The school has no endowment fund and must raise a yearly maintenance fund
of $15,000 for running expenses. Won’t you help us this yearf
Atlanta University
Is beautifully located in the City of Atlanta,
Ga. The courses of study include High
School, Normal School and College, with
manual training and domestic science. Among
the teachers are graduates of Yale, Harvard,
Dartmouth and Wellesley. Forty-five years
of successful work have been completed.
Students come from all parts of the South.
Graduates are almost universally successful.
For further information address
President EDWARD T. WARE
ATLANTA, GA.
Knoxville College
Beautiful Situation. Healthful Location.
The Best Moral and Spiritual Environ-
ment. A Splendid Intellectual Atmos-
phere. Noted for Honest and Thorough
Work.
Offers full courses in the following departments:
College, Normal, High School, Grammar School and
Industrial.
Good water, steam heat, electric lights, good drain-
age. Expense* very reasonable.
Opportunity for self-help.
Fall Term Began September, 1914.
For information address
President R. W. McGRANAHAN
KNOXVILLE, TENN.
STOKER COLLEGE
Founded in 1867
Normal, College Preparatory, Music and
Manual Training Courses offered. Co-edu-
cational. High scholastic ideals. Situated in
historic John Brown Land. Magnificent loca-
tion. Fine library, twelve buildings, good
equipment, thoroughly trained faculty, modern
laboratories, expenses small. A place for the
earnest, poor young man or woman. No
drones wanted.
Write to Pres. HENRY T. McDONALD,
Harpers Ferry, W. Va.
MOREHOUSE COLLEGE
(Formerly Atlanta Baptist College)
ATLANTA. GA
College, Academy, Divinity School
An institution famous within recent years
for its emphasis on all sides of manly develop-
ment—the only institution in the far South
devoted solely to the education of Negro
young men.
Graduates given high ranking by greatest
northern universities. Debating, Y. M. C. A.,
athletics, all live features.
For information address
JOHN HOPE, President.
Mention Tbi Csitxa
266
THE CRISIS
ADVERTISER
The Agricultural and
Mechanical College
Maintained by the govern-
ments of North Carolina and
of the United States. Open
all the year round. For
males only. Fall term be-
gan September i, 1914.
Board, lodging and tuition,
$7 per month. Best oppor-
tunities for Negro youth.
Night school for indigent
but ambitious young men.
For catalog or further infor-
mation, address
PRESIDENT DUDLEY
A. & M. College Greensboro, N. C.
BEREAN MANUAL TRAINING
AND INDUSTRIAL SCHOOL
whici^Ia^fo^its objectEthe training of the head/hand
and heart of crur youth thus fitting them for the practical
requirements of every day life.
Fall Terra and Sixteenth Year Opens Tuesday, Oct. 6, 1914
Day and Night Sessions
Four Departments — Domestic Art, Domestic Science.
Industrial Arts, Academic and Musical. Experienced and
competent teachers in charge. Comfortable dormitory
facilities for both girls and boys on the premises. Non-
resident students are required to hoard in the dormitories.
A well equipped gymnasium for students. An improved
Literary Course for Day Students. Age, sex or previous
training no bar to entrance if the applicant has a good
character. Printing, Plumbing, Upholstery and Wood-
working, special trades for boys. Helpfulness our Object.
Efficiency our Aim. Write now.
MATTHEW ANDERSON, Priacipal, Sevtb Collate Ave., PhiUdotphi*
OFi INTEREST TO VOCAL- STUDENTS
TONE-PLACING AND
VOICE- DEVELOPMENT
Points explained, vi2.: Breath in
Singing, Trying the Voice, the
Soprano, the Mezzo-Soprano, the
Contralto, Tenor Leggiero or High
Tenor, the Baritone, the Bass,
Parts of the Vocal Apparatus, the
Mouth, the Tongue, Position when
Practising, Position when Singing,
How to Practice, Good Rules for
Singing.
Comment from the conductor of the Paulist Chor-
isters,	the celebrated choral society which received
the first prize awarded at the International Singing
Contest held in Paris on May 25, 1912:
“Dear Mr. Tinsley:
“I take great pleasure in commending your very
useful and succinctly written book on ‘Tone-Placing
and Voice-Development.' Your own appreciation of
the psychology of singing and the fundamental prin-
ciples	of the	art you nave cleverly reduced to a
simple system.	Cordially yours,
“Father WILLIAM /. FINN. C. S. P.,
Director Paulist Choristers of Chicago.”
From “Musical Courier," N. Y.: “A very practical
little book is 'Tone-Placing and Voice-Development,'
by Pedro T. Tinsley. It contains some very excellent
material and vocal exercises, and should be in the
hands of all vocal students."
From “Music News," Chicago, 111.: “Accordingly
his ‘Practical Method of Singing' is a most concise
and practical little manual, containing many valuable
vocal exercises. It cannot fail to be helpful to all
ambitious vocal students."
HELPED HIM GREATLY
“Since I practised your exercises of 'Tone-Placing
and Voice-Development' my voice is more resonant
than it has been for years. It seems to me that I
am getting a new voice.” Prof. John T. Layton,
Director Colerldge-Taylor Musical Society, 1722 10th
St.. N. W., Washington, D. C.
PRICE $1.00
Address the publisher: Pedro T. Tinsley, 6448 Drexel
Ave., Chicago, III.; or Clayton F. Summy, 64 E. Van
Buren St., or Lyon & Healy, Adams and Wabash
Ave., Chicago, 111,
ST. MARY'S SCHOOL
An Episcopal boarding and day school for
girls, under the direction of the Sisters of St.
Mary. Address:
THE SISTER-IN-CHARGE
611 N. 43d St.	W. Philadelphia, Pa.
^-vroVc .
(Tr«i« Marfa)
“A MOTHER’S LOVE”
is the title of one of our five new Negro pictures, just off the press.
It portTays a beautiful young colored mother fondling her sturdy babe.
Painted in 12 colors it is rich and elegant and every home should
have a copy hanging on its wall. Write us for description of our new
pictures and terms to agents. For 15 cents in stamps we will send a
sample copy of “A JOYFUL WELCOME INTO HEAVEN",
the picture which our agents have sold 25,000 copies of during the
past few months.
AGENTS WANTED EVERYWHERE
The Douglas Specialties Co*
Department 1C
3548 Vox*non Avenue, s:	Chicago, 111.
Mention The Crisis
THE CRISIS
Vol. 8—No. 6	OCTOBER, 1914	Whole No. 48
		
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
SOCIAL UPLIFT
OLORED people living in the vicinity
of East 37th Street and Forest Avenue,
Chicago, appealed to the Mayor and pre-
vented the opening of a saloon in that neigh-
borhood.
Q Of the party of thirty-five boy scouts who
left New York to walk to Boston recently,
only two reached Boston; one was Meredith
Johnson, a colored boy, and the other was
Fred Monson, a white boy.
<5 Congress has appropriated $55,000 for a
Negro exposition to be held in Richmond, Va.
*J A training school for delinquent colored
youths has been established in Harris Coun-
ty, Texas.
*J The corner stone has been laid for the
Lamberts Point Hospital for colored people
in Norfolk, Va. The hospital will be at the
service of the colored physicians of Norfolk.
C[ Through the efforts of John M. Royall,
a colored real estate dealer in New York
City, two large plots of ground have been
secured in the Harlem district for play-
grounds for the colored children.
The white business league of Montgom-
ery, Ala., asked the colored league of that
place to select a delegate to go with the com-
mittee of white men to Washington, D. C.,
to confer with officials concerning appropria-
tions for waterways and the marketing of
the cotton crop. Dr. W. F. Watkin9 was
chosen.
Howard Drew, the colored sprinter, re-
ceived an offer of $4,000 to run one race in
England as a professional. Drew has re-
fused the offer, however, and says that he
will remain permanently in the amateur
ranks.
Q Extensive welfare work among colored
girls in Philadelphia is being carried on as
a result of the beginning made by Miss A. L.
Richardson, school visitor for the Armstrong
Association. Miss Richardson established
“little mother” classes which were attended
largely by girls ranging from twelve to fif-
teen years of age. Instruction was given in
caring for babies, in preparing food and in
sex and personal hygiene. A certificate is
given at the end of the course which en-
hances the value of those who go out as
children’s nurses.
<J Dr. Arthur Butler and his wife Dr. Isa-
bella M. Garnett, colored physicians of
Evanston, 111., have opened a sanitarium in
that place for the purpose of treating acute
diseases. Graduate nurses and two physi-
cians are always in attendance.
Neal Withers, a colored man, was out
hunting with his dogs in Newman’s woods,
near Columbia, S. C., when one of the dogs
scented a bag. When unearthed the bag was
found to contain jewels and was identified
as a mail pouch taken from a train held up
near Columbia on March 28.
The Ethical Culture Society, an organiza-
tion of young people in Indianapolis, Ind.,
268
THE CRISIS
CALIFORNIA	MISSOURI	MASSACHUSETTS
contributes to the Y. M. C. A. fund, the
Fresh Air Missions and schools in all parts
of the county.
Q An exposition for the celebration of a
half-century of Negro freedom will be held
in Chicago during the month of August,
1915.	Exhibits will be shown in the depart-
ments of Industry, Liberal Arts, Profes-
sions, Education, Sociology and miscellane-
ous departments. A series of congresses will
be held.
Q The Excelsior Public Library for colored
people, which was established five years ago
by a colored woman in Guthrie, Okla., re-
ports for the past year 18,200 visitors and
7,906 books loaned. The colored population
of Guthrie is only 3,000.
The Park Sanitarium and Bath House for
colored patients has been established in
Guthrie.
ES
EDUCATION
r I \HROUGH the efforts of the Superinten-
dent of Education of New Iberia, La.,
a school tax has been laid and the colored
children of that parish will have nine months
of school.
Q Miss Hallie E. Queen, a colored member
of the‘faculty of Howard University, who
has acquired proficiency in the Spanish
tongue by several years’ residence and teach-
ing in Porto Rico, is frequently called upon
by the Latin-American Legations for trans-
lations and interpretations of consular and
diplomatic intercourse.
€J It is said that thirty per cent, of the
United States’ agricultural appropriation of
$300,000 made to Alabama will go to Negro
schools. A committee has recommended that
fifteen per cent, be given to Tuskegee Insti-
tute and that fifteen per cent, be divided
among the other colored agricultural schools
of the state.
<51 J- E. Kwegyir Aggrey, a native African,
who holds a position in Livingstone College,
Salisbury, N. C., wrote a poem in Latin
while attending the summer school at Colum-
bia University. This was published on the
editorial page of the Columbia Student and
received much favorable mention.
*1 The Citizens Union, a colored organiza-
tion, rendered the program at the Richmond
(Ind.) Chautauqua on August 18. Dr. A. J.
Carey of Chicago and the Rev. F. M. Ovel-
ton of Grand Rapids, Mich., delivered the
main addresses. A quintet of colored singers
sang folk-songs.
<5 Miss Henrietta B. French, a colored kin-
dergarten worker who for the past three
years has been Visitor for the Negro Fresh
Air Committee, was the organizer of the
kindergartens in Chattanooga and Rich-
mond recently established by the National
Kindergarten Association. Miss French has
also taught in these kindergartens. She will
return to Richmond this fall at the request
of the Board of Education.
MUSIC AND ART
pAUL LAWRENCE DUNBAR’S “On
the Road,” a dialect poem of sentiment,
has been recently set to music by Mark An-
drews, an American song writer.
A new song of characteristic Negro effect
is “Bes’ of All,” a crooning song by Walter
Kramer.
*J “Hiawatha’s Wedding Feast,” by S. Cole-
ridge-Taylor was included on the program
presented at Bar Harbor, Maine, at the con-
cert given by the Bar Harbor Choral Society
on August 27. The chorus consisted of
ONE OP MANHATTAN’S “FINEST'
270
THE CRISIS
pp§ fjp	.	, m	 »	Hi • f -
		■
r		
■	f f	
i	t	*•	■		:	..	t. fj
	‘•.-A	
|f	, —	*.#•	IMF	
		
!		r	^
MASSACHUSETTS	OHIO	PENNSYLVANIA
ninety voices with an orchestra of players
from the Boston Symphony Orchestra.
At the close of the season, the Students'
Musical Union of the Royal Irish Academy
of Music gave a concert at Dublin, Ireland.
“The Quadroon Girl," by Coleridge-Taylor,
with choral and string orchestral accompani-
ment was sung by Mr. T. W. Hall.
<1 “We Strew These Opiate Flowers," by
Colerige-Taylor, was the selected test for
vocal trio for female voices at the Competi-
tive Festival given at People's Palace, Mile
End, England.
<J> Prof. John A. Lomax of the University
of Texas, who has made valuable contribu-
tions in the field of American folk-songs,
recently gave recitals at Reading Hour,
Chautauqua, N. Y. He spoke of plantation
songs, spirituals and other types of Negro
folk-song.
<1 Recent acquisitions from the Harvard
University Museum of Fine Arts expedition
have been installed at the Museum of Fine
Arts, Boston, Mass. They consist of Egyp-
tian primitive art works from the earliest
pre-dynastic period. Of exquisite beauty are
the necklaces, scarabs and seals of gold, elec-
trum mounted, and ivory hair ornaments.
In the Empire Room graceful specimens of
pottery are found from the rare Hyksos
period 1650 B. C.
€J An unusual book of poems, “The Ebon
Muse," by Leon Laviaux, has recently been
published by Smith and Sale. The verses
are in praise of the beauty of the dark-
skinned races.
CJ On August 30, the Hampton chorus, com-
posed of Negro and Indian students, of
Hampton Institute, sang at the Collegiate
Church of St. Nicholas, New York City.
This was the last engagement of a hundred
day journey, the chorus cruising aboard the
schooner, Hampton, from Virginia to Maine.
According to Frank T. Bullen in London
Tit Bits, the majority of chanties, sea-songs
sung by sailors, come from the Negroes of
the southern states, the crude songs being
sung to lighten the hours of labor.
<3 A feature of the third program at the
annual music festival of the MacDowell
Memorial Association at Peterboro, N. H.,
was the presentation of Coleridge-Taylor’s
“Death of Minnehaha."
<J Mrs. Marjorie Groves-Robinson, pianist,
and Mr. George L. Ruffin, tenor, of Boston,
Mass., were heard in joint recital at Mt. Zion
Church, Newport, R. I., the last of the
season.
<3 An interesting article appeared in July
in Musical America, concerning the art of
Roland W. Hayes, tenor, of Boston. Of Mr.
Hayes, his teacher, Mr. Arthur Hubbard,
says: “I have not a pupil in my classes for
whom I have had a more genuine affection
than for this lad, nor have I one who pos-
sesses a keener intelligence or a surer musi-
cal feeling and taste." Musical America
adds: “Hayes loves best the Italian langu-
age and music. One would think, only to
hear him, that he was one of the golden-
voiced Italians with whom the generations
have all too discreetly endowed us. His
enunciation is excellent and he has the trick
of it. His manner is modest and quiet and
his soul goes out on the song he sings."
^ A colored theatre, the New American
Theatre, has been opened in Washington,
D.	C.
Mrs. Lela Walker Bryan, dramatic reader
of Philadelphia, gave a recital at Estey Hall
recently. She was assisted by Miss Helen
L. Sheffey, soprano, and Mr. James F. Wil-
liams, pianist.
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
271
TENNESSEE
ILLINOIS
TENNESSEE
^ An Autumn Exposition and Amusement
Festival will be held at Manhattan Casino
in New York September 28 to October 2.
MEETINGS
'T'HE National Medical Association met in
Raleigh, N. C., August 25, 26 and 27.
Q The Negro voters of New Jersey met in
Atlantic City on August 15.
The tenth annual session of the St. Paul
Farmer’s Conference met in Lawrenceville,
Va., recently. This conference is composed
of more than 1,000 colored farmers of the
county. When the conference was inau-
gurated ten years ago colored farmers owned
25,000	acres of land valued, with the build-
ing thereon, at $332,000. Now they own 38,-
100 acres of land valued at $594,047. Dur-
ing the past year $950 was raised for im-
provements and new buildings and $450 for
extending the school term.
CJ The National Baptist Convention met in
Philadelphia on September 9.
Fifteen hundred colored men met in the
twentieth annual tournament of the North
Carolina Colored Volunteer Firemen’s Asso-
ciation in Fayetteville, August 18-21. Three
hundred dollars in prizes were given away.
Each year the town makes an appropriation
for this meeting.
^ One hundred and eighty-three delegates
and perhaps 5,000 visitors attended the Elks
Convention in Norfolk, Va., August 25-28.
It is reported that* the City Council appro-
priated $400 for the entertainment of the
visitors and this appropriation was vetoed
by the Mayor. Finally, however, a commit-
tee of the council passed the bill over the
Mayor’s veto.
<J The eighth annual convention of the Cali-
fornia Federation of Colored Women’s
Clubs met in San Diego in August. Mrs.
C.	H. Dodge was elected president.
<3 The State Federation of Indiana met the
early part of September in Indianapolis.
<| The Texas State Colored Farmers’ Con-
gress met at Prairie View State Normal Col-
lege the last of August.
<j There were present about eighty dele-
gates at the seventh annual meeting of the
National Independent Political League at
New York City, Sept. 7-9. A public mass
meeting was held on the last night. Among
the speakers were Dr. J. E. Spingarn and
Mr. W. M. Trotter.
£9
ECONOMICS
THE company of colored men that fur-
nishes light and power for the city of
Washington, Ark., is now building a rail-
road from Washington to Columbus, a dis-
tance of ten miles.
At the first annual meeting of the Stan-
dard Life Insurance Company, of Atlanta,
Ga., it was reported that the company had
in force $1,879,761 in insurance upon the
lives of 9,343 policyholders. Three hundred
and thirty-six people are employed by the
company and the total income for the year
was $100,755.63.
<] The Drake and Foote Hat Company is a
thriving colored business enterprise and the
only business of its nature carried on by
colored people in St. Louis. Six expert col-
ored assistants are employed.
S-
PERSONAL
TRANCE J. ANDERSON, a colored em-
* ployee in the Chicago Post Office, has in-
vented and patented a practical street car
272
THE CRISIS
ILLINOIS	PENNSYLVANIA	OHIO
fender. He made his own blue prints and
models.
<J Mr. George H. Anderson, of Vancouver,
B. C., is the secretary and the only colored
member of the British Columbia Association
of Stationary Engineers. He edits the
monthly mechanical journal published by the
Association.
<J It was erroneously stated in the Septem-
ber Crisis that Mr. Alexander L. Jackson
of Harvard would be one of the Fellows dur-
ing the next year of the National League on
Urban Conditions among Negroes. Mr. J.
H. Robinson, M. A., 1914, from Yale, will
hold this place.
Dr. John P. Turner, a colored physician
of Philadelphia, will address the Interna-
tional Congress of Home Education, which
meets in Philadelphia September 22-29. Dr.
Turner, who is the first colored physician
who has been asked to speak before this
congress, has also been appointed as one of
the committee of seven censors to review and
pass on all papers read before the American
Open Air School Association.
<J Isaac Fisher, a colored man, now con-
nected with Tuskegee Institute, won the first
prize of. $500 offered by Everybody’s Maga-
zine for the best essay on “What We have
Learned about Rum, or Rum and Its Ene-
mies.”
<J Mr. Clement Johnson, a young colored
man, was graduated from the Salem (Ohio)
High School and was granted the Alumni
Scholarship of $125 as the best student and
most versatile man in the class.
€J Prof. William Pickens, formerly of Tal-
ladega College, has resigned his position
there and accepted one in Wiley University
at Marshall, Texas. The colored people of
Talladega presented the family with a “Lov-
ing Cup” upon their departure.
Mr. Alexander King, a colored man,
holds a responsible position as Assistant
Superintendent of the Wall Street Post Of-
fice Station in New York City. This station
handles more mail than any other sub-sta-
tion. Mr. King has been in the sendee of
the Post Office for twenty-two years and has
held his present position since 1907.
€\ James C. Thomas, of New York, was
nominated as a delegate at large for the
Constitutional Convention at the Progres-
sive Convention at Utica, N. Y.
THE COURTS
ell. BOGER, a colored restaurant own-
• er of New York City, was fined $15
for refusing to serve a white woman who
came into the restaurant with her colored
husband. Boger testified that he had been
warned against serving mixed parties of
white and colored people by Police Captain
Max Nootbar.
An injunction has been asked in Atlanta,
Ga., against the members of the Raban Tem-
ple Shriners by the white Temple of the
order to prohibit the colored shriners from
using the same symbols, terms and regalia as
used by the white Shriners.
B
THE GHETTO
T T is reported that the graded colored
*■' schools of Atlanta will have only seven
grades hereafter.
€J The white residents of Kansas City, Mo.,
are protesting against the removal of West-
ern College, an institution for Negroes, from
Macon, Mo., to that city. The Improvement
Association declares that it will “use any
means” to prevent the removal.
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
273
*1 The Negroes of Galveston, Texas, have
organized an anti-lynching society.
9 The Helena (Ark.) Clarion has been car-
rying on a campaign against the cruelty with
which the colored county prisoners are treat-
ed. The colored girls imprisoned there are
stripped and beaten unmercifully and par-
ticularly so when any one escapes.
The park guard of Baxter Square in
Louisville, Ky., claims that he has positive
orders from the Superintendent of Parks to
forbid colored children from bathing in the
pool in the park.
m
CRIME
'T'HE following colored men have been
A lynched since the last report: At Mon-
roe, La., Preston Griffin and Charles Hall,
charged with murderous attack upon a white
man, were taken from the jail and lynched;
twenty-four hours before Henry Holmes w-as
lynched for the same crime. Near Monroe,
La., an unidentified man, charged with the
murder of a white man, was lynched.
Q A serious race riot came near resulting
from the attack of a police officer upon aD
innocent colored man in Wilmington, Del.
The officer let the guilty man escape and col-
lared this one. Bystanders attempted to
explain but the officer paid no attention and
shot the colored man, wounding him seri-
ously. The policeman then, frightened at
the angry attitude of the crowd that had
gathered, sent in a riot call.
CJ It was reported that a colored mob had
lynched a white man in Clarksville, Tenn.,
for rape upon a 12-year-old colored child.
Later reports are that the man was not
lynched but killed by the uncle of the out-
raged child who went with the sheriff to find
the man.
Police Patrolman William Fincher of
Mobile, Ala., has been dismissed from the
service and is being held without bail for
the murder of a colored man.
<J Jailer E. J. Farris of the Paris (Ky.)
jail, killed the leader of a mob which was
attempting to break into the jail. The pur-
pose of the mob was to lynch Henry Thomas,
a colored man accused of assault and at-
tempted robbery.
MISSOURI
A GENTLEWOMAN
TV/TRS. CHARLOTTE FORTEN GRIMKE
was born in Philadelphia August 17,
1837. Her grandfather was James For-
ten, who served in the Revolutionary War,
and was a prominent business man of
Philadelphia. When he died his funeral
was attended by thousands of the best
citizens, both white and colored. Mrs.
Grimke was educated in the Normal School
at Salem, Mass., and taught for a while
in one of the schools of Salem. She
taught also in South Carolina, a little before
the clos^ and immediately after the war, un-
THE LATE MRS. CHARLOTTE FORTEN
GRIMKE
der the auspices of the Freedmen’s Aid So-
ciety, and wrote some articles on her ex-
perience on the islands in the neighborhood
of Beaufort, which were published in the
Atlantic Monthly. She was a contributor
also to the Christian Register, and the Bos-
ton Commonwealth, and wrote one article
for the New England Magazine. She knew
intimately many of the most distinguished
people of New England: like Wendell
Phillips, William Lloyd Garrison, Charles
Sumner, John G. Whittier, Thomas Went-
worth Higginson, Theodore D. Weld, Lydia
Maria Childs, Elizabeth Peabody, Lucy
Stone, Lucy Larcom, Louisa Alcott, and
many others. Washington was her home for
about forty years. For some years she was
a clerk in the Treasury Department. She
became a member of the Fifteenth Street
Presbyterian Church in 1877, and in Decem-
ber, 1879, was happily married to the Rev.
Francis J. Grimke. One daughter was born
to them, but died many years ago. Mrs.
Grimke had a lovely disposition, was sweet
and gentle, and yet she was a woman of great
strength of character. She was a woman of
great refinement; there was not the slightest
trace of coarseness about her in any shape
or form. She had a bright sonny disposi-
tion. She never grew old in spirit—she was
always young, as young as the youngest.
She had a fine mind, carefully trained and
cultivated by hard study and by contact with
the best literature and with cultured people,
and the keenest appreciation for all that was
best in literature and art. She loved books
and pictures and flowers and everything that
was beautiful and soul-uplifting. She was
always thoughtful, always considerate for
others—never allowing the thought of self
to intrude or to interfere with the comfort
and happiness of others. The plane upon
MEN OF THE MONTH
275
THE LATE REV. JAMES GORDON
which her life, inner and outer, moved was
always high. There was nothing little or
grovelling in her makeup. She was a loving
and devoted wife, and a true friend.
A PROTECTOR OF CHILDREN
' I ''HE Rev. James Gordon, Superintendent
•*- of the Howard Orphan Asylum since
1903, died March 3, 1914. Mr. Gordon was
born in Warrington, Va., fifty-seven years
ago. He began active life as a barber in
Harrisburg, Pa. Later he removed to Phila-
delphia where he married Miss Mary Ste-
vens. He worked at his trade and studied
for the ministry at Baptist Temple College.
He entered the Baptist ministry in 1893.
After ten years' work as pastor in Philadel-
phia and New York City, he took charge of
the Howard Orphan Asylum, April 5, 1903.
It had been the custom to send the chil-
dren out to work at twelve or thirteen years
of age before they were fully prepared.
Mr. Gordon set himself to the task of es-
tablishing an industrial school in connection
with the orphanage where the children could
be trained and sent out to work when about
eighteen years old; This he succeeded in do-
ing and in 1906, 168 acres of land were pur-
chased at St. James, L. I., for a farm.
THE LATE MRS. LUCY E. CASE
When this place became too small, a farm
at King's Park, L. I., valued at $S0,000, was
purchased and seven new cottages erected
and four old ones remodeled.
At the time of Mr. Gordon's death 250
children were being cared for. The plant,
valued at $83,000 in 1903, is now worth
$200,500 with a total acreage of 740.
Mr. Gordon was a strong forceful char-
acter who pounded his way through much
discouragement and opposition to the ac-
complishment of a life work of great value.
THE LITTLE MOTHER
TV/fRS. LUCY E. CASE, originally of Sut-
ton, Mass., and for forty-five years of-
ficially connected with the Atlanta Univer-
sity, passed quietly away at her home in
Charlton City, Mass., Monday, July 19.
Mrs. Case's early years were spent in New
England. Her father was a thrifty and suc-
cessful farmer, living upon the farm first
cleared by his ancestors, and which still re-
mains in the possession of descendents of
the original settler. As a young girl she at-
tended Leicester Academy from which she
was called home at fourteen to the bedside
of her dying mother. This experience was
276
THE CRISIS
PENNSYLVANIA
NEW YORK
FLORIDA
followed by six years of invalidism which
left their impress upon her fragile form, but
which left their influence also upon her
Christian character. She knew suffering all
her life and was made strong by it.
For some time she attended Mount Hol-
yoke Academy and came under the influence
of Mary Lyon.
The Civil War being closed, Mrs. Case
joined the army of teachers that went South
into the work of educating the Freedmen for
civilization. Under the American Missionary
Association she worked for a year at Macon,
Ga., and for a year at Albany, Ga. There
are people still living at Albany who recall
the little woman who somehow entered into
their lives and left there a deep New Eng-
land impress.
After the year at Albany, Mrs. Case was
appointed a teacher in the Atlanta Univer-
sity then about to open its doors, and was
present to meet the first class that entered
the school. Her name appears upon every
catalogue from the first to the forty-fifth,
either as an active worker or as an honorary
matron. Beginning as a teacher in many
lines, with the growing numbers of pupils
and better organization of the work finally
she became matron of the Boys’ Hall.
The passing of Mrs. Case, in a sense, closes
an era in the history of the Freedmen. Mrs.
Case was probably the last survivor of the
little company that in 1869 opened for the
first time the doors of Atlanta University.
Perhaps with her death closes an era in
which the “forward strides” of the colored
race have been accomplished by the Negro
himself aided by his northern teachers and
friends, and held back, as Mrs. Hammond
suggests, by “southern management.”
May it not be that the new half century
shall see not two, but three forces co-operat-
ing for the solution of that vexing situation
known as the southern problem! In this
solution we count first, “the innate capacity
Of the Negro for progress”; second, a more
sympathetic management on the part of the
white South, as suggested by the Forward
Movement; and third, the continued assist-
ance of the North. And the result shall be
an ever-widening securing of Justice and
Opportunity for all the sons and daughters
of all the nationalities and races who call
this broad land “Our Country.”
E. H. Webster.
MONTANA
SOUTH CAROLINA
OHIO
OPINION

SEGREGATION
the injustice The .TamPa (FIa-) Tribune
publishes a letter from a
colored man showing that the white citizens
of Tampa have “segregated” all their white
and colored prostitutes in the colored quarter
where there are six churches, two schools and
a masonic temple:
“It will be seen by the foregoing table that
approximately three thousand people are
more or less effected by these disorderly
houses and that, too, while either attending
schools or in the orderly worship of religious
services. It may also be pointed out that
about three-fourths of the church-going col-
ored people of the whole city are compelled
to inhale the odor and face the glare of the
‘red-light’ district.”
Why were the churches and halls and
schools built there? The correspondent says
plaintively:
“We had to have churches so we built
them where we had the opportunity to do
so. But it can be shown that all of these
churches, except one, preceded these disor-
derly houses to this section.”
This is always the fruit of legal or cus-
tomary segregation of Negroes: In New
Orleans, Washington and Baltimore it means
the confining of the mass of colored people
'to the worst alleys in the world. Nashville
particularly is a case in point: twenty-six
years ago the writer of this article nearly
died from typhoid fever at Fisk University,
because the city refused this institution sew-
erage connections. To-day the city still re-
fuses, although this part of Nashville is one
of the neatest, quietest and prettiest suburbs
inhabited by people of moderate means;
nevertheless, these people are colored and
they must continue to sicken and die.
The situation in Richmond (Va.) is pic-
tured thus by T. W. Jones, who writes to
one of the local white dailies:
“What does it matter if because of greatly
increasing numbers we must encroach upon
what has formerly been known as white ter-
ritory? What does it matter if the white
people in the vicinity of Leigh and Fifth
Streets are crowded out? They have every-
where to go while colored people have no-
where else to go. We are not only segre-
'
I
j
\
i
OHIO
NEW YORK
MINNESOTA
278
THE CRISIS
PENNSYLVANIA
gated in Jackson Ward but segregated in
certain sections of that Ward, confined to
the narrow limits of the blocks and even
half blocks.
' “Here we are cooped up like fowl in a
crate, packed together like sardines in a box,
piled upon each other like rats in a trap.
Not alone must we live in houses built for us
in blind alleys, but we must live in houses
built for us in the rear of other houses where
there are no alleys, blind or otherwise, and
where entrance and egress for the family in
the rear house are to be gained only through
the actual living rooms of the family in the
front house.
“There is located in Jackson Ward no
public playground for children, no public
park for adults, but in their stead is main-
tained a cemetery, a public dump for the
city’s refuse matter, a erematory for dis-
eased, dead and putrifying animals. In this
Ward we must live, move and have our be-
ing. In this Ward we must erect our church-
es and build our homes. In this Ward our
children must be born, eke out a miserable
existence and finally die. For this congest-
ed, unsanitary and unhealthy manner of
housing we must pay fifty per cent, more
rent than other people pay.
NEW YORK
“What does it matter that the death rate
in this black belt is 36 per cent., while among
the white people of the same class, but better
housed, it is only 14 per cent.? What does
it matter that the undertaker is the most
popular business man and the grave digger
the most over-worked individual in our com-
munity? What does it matter that we must
ruthlessly sacrifice 22 per cent, of our kith
and kin; that 22 per cent, more of human
lives is the extra toll we must pay for the
privilege of living in Jackson Ward? What
does it matter that 22 per cent, of colored
people are by law actually murdered that the
separation of the races may be an unqualified
success?”
But why multiply examples? It is well
known to observers that segregation of the
poor or the despised means not separation
simply but subordination and oppression.
It is for this reason that the colored people
and their friends have been so deeply stirred
from one end of the nation to the other.
In the face of these facts consider ihe
press dispatch published throughout the
country. We reproduce its headlines and all
from the Louisville (Ky.) Herald:
FLORIDA
TENNESSEE
ARKANSAS
TENNESSEE
OPINION
279
PENNSYLVANIA	TENNESSEE	FLORIDA
MUST BE LESS TALK OF
RACIAL FRICTION
Booker T. Washington Advises Negroes Not
to Fight Segregation Laws
Muskogee, Ok la., Aug. 19.—Booker T.
Washington, of Tuskegee, Ala., to-night told
delegates to the annual convention of the
National Negro Business League, in session
here, that there must be less talk of racial
friction and more attention to the acquiring
of intelligence and wealth if the Negro race
is to progress.
“Quit thinking of the parts of the cities
you can’t live in, but begin to beautify that
part in which you can live,” he advised in
discussing segregation laws recently enacted
in several cities.
m
LYNCHING
Leslie’s Weekly, which
has never been top-
MINOR
DISCRIMINATIONS”
this delicious advice in an editorial on “The
Negroes’ Future”:
heavy with brains, has
“Let not the Negro imagine because ot’
lynchings and minor discriminations here
and there that every man’s hand is raised
against him. The Negro must help himself.
He must win a place for himself. Whenever
lie does this lie possesses self-respect and re-
ceives also the respect of others.”
“Minor Discriminations” is excellent, and
it must be gratifying to the 2,692 Negroes
who have been publicly lynched and burned
in the last 29 years to know that they are re-
ceiving the “respect” of others.
Meantime, the London (Eng.) Spectator
insists that President Wilson’s first and
largest duty is to stop the disgrace of lynch-
ing. Answering the criticism of a corre-
spondent it says:
“We, of course, knew as well as he does
that the Constitution gives no power to the
President or to Congress to apply our pro-
posals to districts where lynchings have taken
place. Therefore we suggested that the
President should take the lead in inaugurat-
ing legislation, including, of course, the nec-
essary amendment of the Constitution. We
shall, of course, be told that such an amend-
ment is absolutely hopeless. To which we
TENNESSEE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
OHIO
280
THE CRISIS
reply—not if the people of the United States
are in earnest in the desire to stop burning
Negroes alive. When in earnest they can
and do change the Constitution—witness the
existing amendments.”
The venerable Frank B. Sanborn follows
this by a letter in which he says of the
Negro:
“It is people of this race—with faults
enough, God knows, but the only sincere
practical Christians in thousands of square
miles—that the inherent, unconquerable bar-
barism entailed by slavery burns and shoots
and tortures, as the Spaniard used to tor-
ture and bum the English captive. As Jef-
ferson said in that same impassioned appeal
to his white countrymen, ‘I tremble for my
country when I reflect that God is just; that
His justice cannot slumber forever.1 The
remedy must be found in the national Gov-
ernment taking up the cause of the Negro
(to whom, in the critical year 1863, it largely
owed its victory over rebellion), and putting
down by the strong hand insufferable crim-
inalities, such as you have described.”
The New York Evening Post, commenting
on a lynching for the alleged stealing of
three mules, says:
“This is the kind of lynching we have been
getting accustomed to hearing of, now these
many years. The old-time excuse that the
crime for which Negroes were treated in this
barbarous fashion was one which made men’s
blood boil has long since ceased to be put to
the front. So also has the other excuse, that
the law’s delays or uncertainties were un-
bearable. For cold-blooded and inexcusable
brutality and lawlessness, it would be diffi-
cult to get a stronger case than this from
Mississippi. ° * * There is not the faintest
indication that the perpetrators of this hor-
rible crime against the law and against hu-
manity will be brought to account for theii
act.”
One variation on this grim theme comes
from Tennessee, and the Miami (Fla.)
Metropolis, a white paper, says:
“Last Monday morning in Clarksville
Tenn., the seventeen-year son of a prominen
farmer was shot and killed by a mob ol
Negroes because of his alleged criminal as
sault on a twelve-year-old Negro girl. Th<
uncle of the girl admitted that he fired th<
shot that killed the boy, and—here is the
circumstance upon which the South may re
OPINION
281
gain much lost respect—a coroner's jury re-
turned a verdict of ‘justifiable homicide !'
“It was ‘only a little Negro girl' and the
boy was the son of a respected white man,
but the same impulse that would direct a
crowd of southern white men to take venge-
ance on a ‘Negro fiend' directed the girl’s
kinsmen to carry out their mob law.
“And in the case of these Negroes, ‘mob
law' is more to be forgiven than it could ever
be in the case of white men. If the boy had
been arrested and tried in any white man's
court it is not conceivable that he would have
been sent to pay the’penalty for his crime
and his death should be looked upon as a
blessing to the community in which he lived."
the negro
PRESS
CURIOUS ERROR
The August Crisis quoted the
St. Luke's Herald as follows:
“The greatest Negro school
in the country is Howard
University, with nearly
1,500	students, represent-
ing 35 states and the Dis-
trict of Columbia. If race
ideals are to be taught in
any school in this country,
one would most assuredly
expect to find it in How-
ard University, Washing-
ton, D. C. Yet, in this
great Negro School, the
walls bear not one Negro
face, despite the distin-
guished Alumni and Alum-
nae which the University
has produced.”
The Secretary of How-
ard University immediate-
ly wrote us:
“There hang upon the
walls of Howard Univer-
sity the portraits of Fred-
erick Douglass, John M.
Langston, Robert Purvis,
Dr. Charles B. Purvis, Dr.
Sojourner Truth, Booker
bust of Booker T. Washington in the Car-
negie Library, and in the Secretary's office
there is a picture of the first group of Fisk
Jubilee Singers. All these are held to pro-
duce inspiration among the students.
“The writer of the statement in your paper
is scarcely excusable, for it is not a mistake
in detail but a wholesale sweeping statement
that he could not have known was true be-
cause it is not true. Please give this state-
ment as wide a circulation as you gave the
other. I think the error should be laid at
the door of the Crisis as well as at the door
of the writer of the article."
St. Luke’s Herald has always seemed such
a reliable paper that the Crisis has quoted
it with confidence. We immediately wrote
to St. Luke's Herald for an explanation. A
month has passed and we have received no
answer. We have, therefore, two apologies
to make: one is to the
Howard University for an
unintentional mis - state-
ment. The other is to St.
Luke's Herald for evident-
ly mistaking the reliability
of that publication.
All of which is another
sermon on the Negro
Press.
VOTERS AND
SCHOOLS
WASHINGTON
Furman Shadd,
T. Washington,
Henry 0. Tanner and Wiley Lane. In the
Andrew Rankin Chapel there is a beautiful
memorial window erected in honor of Prof.
C. C. Cook, also a pure white marble tablet
in memory of Miss Martha Briggs. There
has always been a bust of Frederick Doug-
lass in the Chapel until in making some
repairs a carpenter damaged it. It will be
repaired and replaced. There has always
been until within a few weeks ago a bronze
SOME MORE LIES
R. M. Powell
writes in the
Truth-Seeker
(N. Y.):
“Mr. Smith is greatly in
error when he says the
whites of the South have
nine months free school,
and the Negroes only
three. There is no dis-
crimination whatever in
the amount per capita of
the public money.”
The Columbia (S. C.) State, a southern
white paper, says editorially about the same
time and says it in capitals:
“FOR EACH ONE DOLLAR OF TAX
REVENUES SPENT FOR THE SCHOOL-
ING OF A NEGRO CHILD SEVEN DOL-
LARS AND OVER IS EXPENDED FOR
THE SCHOOLING OF A WHITE
CHILD."
In cheerful ignorance, or something worse,
Mr. Smith proceeds:
“During reconstruction
times when the
282
THE CRISIS
Southern States were admitted back into the
Union, the first thing necessary was a good
government—one that would redeem the
public credit, establish free schools, and
bring about law and order generally. To do
this, it was necessary to keep that class of
sorry white men out of office. This could
not be done in those districts where the Ne-
groes were largely in the majority, and their
votes counted. Hence in those districts riots
and bloodshed on election days were too often
common, and race antagonism was being en-
gendered. Such a condition had to be
changed, or it is hard to tell where we would
have drifted to. The disfranchisement of
the Negroes was the only solution to the
problem.”
This is history with a vengeance. Every
child knows that free public schools were
forced on the bourbon South by Negro votes.
As B. G. Brawley writes to the Dial:
"Is it not about time that a stop should
be put to these old slurs and slanders on the
Negro? Simple historical accuracy to-day
demands that the facts of Reconstruc-
tion be studied without preju-
dice and with a reasonable amount
of care. No situation that has ever
arisen in American history has re-
ceived more gross exaggeration
than the tale of the ex-slave’s short-
comings when he was given a
chance in the political life of tlie
nation. Why? Because it is the
popular thing to give the Negro a
kick. As a matter of fact the
Negro was for the most part simply
the victim of the greed of men far
more criminal and at the time more
capable than himself. Major John
R. Lynch has recently shown us in
‘ The Facts of Reconstruction ’ (is-
sued by the Neale Publishing Co.,
New York) that in Mississippi,
where the Negroes reached the
highest political power, they at no
time had more than thirty-four out
of the 140 members of the Legisla-
ture; but that they took part in
those governments which put the
southern States in harmony with
the nation and that they helped to
plan and organize the present
southern common school system. In
view of such facts as these, current
and popular exaggeration would at
least seem to be in need of modifi-
cation.w	ALABAMA
SOCIAL EQUALITY
The	Public	of	June 19
INTERMARRIAGE	.	P
was	a sort or symposium
on	lhe	Negro.	In a	review	of	Mecklin’s
“Democracy and Race Friction”:
“There is nothing particularly original in
the book, either in idea or expression. The
basis of social solidarity, he explains, is the
common instincts given rational interpreta-
tion and direction in group life. Different
races through separation and natural selec-
tion have educated different instincts. So the
Negro is debarred by the white man from
complete social solidarity—which carried out
must mean intermarriage. ‘To what extent
this is based upon unreasoning prejudice and
to what extent it is due to an instinctive
and justifiable effort to safeguard the social
heritage of the white,’ the author is ‘not con-
cerned to say’ in his first chapter. Chapters
II and III discuss ‘race traits’ at great
length. The Negro is a child, a member of a
backward race and should not be left just
to ‘grow’; he should be under tutelage. But
OPINION
283
this chance he lost when emancipation sep-
arated him from the white man’s affection
and civilizing influence. The Social Herit-
age of the Negro, described in Chapter IV,
is a very black background indeed, as a mat-
ter of fact so wholly unsympathetic as to
make it essentially untrue. To quote as au-
thority, for instance, the assertion that
among savages there is 'no such thing as
love, merely sex instinct,’ is to fling an in-
sulting untruth into the face of humanity.”
Unity, of Chicago, says of the proposed
intermarriage bill in Congress:
“The law that is needed in the District of
Columbia and throughout the South is one
that would hold a white man responsible for
his child, whether the mother be black or
white. Intermarriage between the races,
sanctified by religion and enforced by law,
is a thousand times less degrading and de-
humanizing than the present situation, which
results in the continuous and, according to
some good authorities, increasing stream of
mulatto children born into the world.”
“SCIENCE” AND RACE
Robert H. Lowie, the anthropol-
a change 0gist, review’s 11 Some Recent
of front Expressions on Racial Inferior-
ity” in the September A’eio Review and espe-
cially takes up the writings of Professor Eu-
gene Fischer, of Germany:
“The question remains, whether it is not
quite enough for any race to be able to do
average work in this workaday world of
ours. Granting, for the sake of argument,
that Caucasians will have a monopoly of ex-
ceptional achievement, the greater part cf all
labor must still devolve on the men of me-
dium ability, and if it be admitted, as
Fischer does admit, that the average ability
of the whites and of the colored races is
about on a level, it will make no practical
difference to civilization whether the laborers
are white or colored. In other words, on
rational grounds, based on the needs of hu-
manity, there would be no reason
for the artificial restriction of the
activities of any race. It may be
well to add that the greater yiative
variability of the white race is not
an established fact, but an hypothe-
sis offered to account for differences
in achievement. Such differences,
however, are in so many cases due
to specific historical conditions that
the hypothesis is far from convinc-
ing. We should like to have fur-
ther data, based on objective inves-
tigations, that shall not ignore such
elementary statistical considerations
as the relative-numbers of the pop-
ulations compared.
“In conclusion, we may call at-
tention to an interesting parallel.
Not long ago anti-feminists asserted
an inferior average endowment of
women as compared with men; now
the emphasis is rather on the al-
leged difference in variability.
Race-theorists are apparently un-
dergoing a similar transformation.
Instead of denying to the colored
races the possession of an approxi-
mately equal degree of average in-
telligence, they are entrenching
themselves behind the convenient
dogma of greater Caucasian vari-
ability.”
OHIO
284
THE CRISIS
MANUFACTURING CRIME
The Savannah (Ga.) Neivs
in an editorial throws a pecu-
liar light on methods of han-
dling crime in the South:
PEONAGE IN
THE SOUTH
“The Charleston News a?id Courier quotes
from a letter the preacher, the Rev. Frank
Weaver wrote to the Edgefield Advertiser
about a homicide that occured at his church
recently.
“He wrote that it had been his experience
that nearly all of the crimes committed at
Negro churches were the work of Negroes
who had been ‘bought out of crimes,’ and he
predicted that ‘as long as these bad boys are
paid out of bad crimes and sent back on our
good people we cannot hope for much better
times.’ The inference is that Negroes who
sell their labor to white employers in ex-
change for fines paid the courts for their
freedom think they can commit crimes right
and left and escape chaingang terms because
their labor is in demand. Of course, they
prefer to work out their fines in freedom
than on the chaingang, but the preacher pro-
tests that they are free, while working out
i heir fines, to commit other crimes and that
they do not fail to commit them.”
8§
“The colored women of Princeton are en-
titled to much credit for their patriotic ef-
forts to erect a tablet to the memory of
Oliver Cromwell. This is not the Cromwell
of English history, but the humbler Crom-
well, a Negro, who fought in the War of the
Revolution. His habitat was in Mercer and
Burlington counties; he fought in the battles
of Trenton, Princeton and Monmouth, and
in the picture, ‘The Passing of Washington,'*
hanging in the old barracks in Trenton, is
the figure of a black man on horseback, sup-
posed to be Oliver Cromwell. His discharge
from the army was in Washington’s own
handwriting, and for several years he re-
ceived a pension. His death occurred in
1853, but as yet no stone marks his grave.
Here, indeed, is a ‘Cromwell guiltless of his
country’s blood,’ not only, but one who im-
periled his life and gave his best services to
Washington and the new nation that did but
little for him or his race until ten years after
his death.	Newark N ews.
OKLAHOMA
TENNE88EB
285
ALONG THE COLOR LINE
MOTHERS IN COUNCIL
AT the Los Angeles
meeting of the Na-
tional Federation of Wom-
en’s Clubs a color bar was
erected against colored
women and it was decreed
that clubs of colored wom-
en could not join the fed-
eration. Jane Addams and
a few others fought des-
perately against this dis-
graceful decision but New
England, and especially
Massachusetts, women de-
serted her and the decision
stood.
As a result the colored
women formed their own
federation and for the last
20 years have held ten bi-
ennial sessions. There are
connected with the federa-
tion some 700 or more
clubs, and practically all
the work of social uplift
and social reform among ten million people
is being done by these clubs. They are con-
ducting hospitals, homes for orphans and
the aged, reformatories, kindergartens, day
nurseries, and other uisti-
tutions, beside doing work
in study, literature and
art. Several states have
state federations of clubs,
notably Illinois, Colorado,
Alabama, Mississippi,
Kentucky, etc.
The last biennial session
of the National Associa-
tion was held at Wilber-
force in August and
brought together about
500 women. It was an in-
teresting occasion and they
were interesting people.
There were few visitors
present (Zona Gale, the
author, being almost the
only white woman). The
sessions were strenuous,
almost too strenuous, one
would say, being continu-
ous from 9 o’clock in the
morning until 10 or 11 at
night, for three days. Practically all the
work was done in full convention which
meant large audiences and much dif-
ficulty, especially among the visitors, in
:
i
i
i
*
>
MOTHERS IN COUNCIL
(Over)
(over)
THE TENTH BIENNIAL SESSION OF THI
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COLORED WOMEN
(over)
288
THE CRISI8
*
5
_*
;

hearing the many interesting local re-
ports. The chance listener might have been
a little puzzled at the purport of the meeting
and the meaning of the reports, but if he
had known the local work which these women
were doing he would have looked upon the
meeting as the smallest and least significant
part of a tremendous movement.
The critic would see much lost opportunity
in a meeting of this size. It ought to be
reduced to small intimate conferences with
carefully threshed out information and ju-
dicial weighing of facts. Broad messages of
inspiration should come in the mass meetings
and in many ways the critic could suggest
ways of utilizing this force of 500 repre-
sentatives from nearly every state in the
union, to greater advantage than was done
at Wilberforce. But after all, critics do not
make the world and here is this vast fact:
that in 50 years the work of social uplift
among colored people has been taken in hand
by its women and is being done with remark-
able efficiency and astonishing results.
Of course, the human side,, the women
themselves, are the striking part of a meet-
ing of this sort. No group of women in the
world have suffered more from irresponsible
and vicious detraction than the colored
women in America. In the meeting at Wil-
berforce one could 6ee perhaps the fairest
general representation of the forward mov-
ing women of this race. It was not a meet-
ing of idlers and fadists, it was not “fash-
ionable” in any sense, and indeed, the social
side of the session was perhaps too much
neglected; but the women were well dressed,
very much in earnest and evidently repre-
sented wide extremes of education and eco-
nomic condition. There were those there
who would have looked at home on Fifth
Avenue and beside them efficient-looking
housekeepers and good-natured mothers of
large broods. There were severe-looking
public speakers and timid and hesitant young
graduates with reports done in blue ribbon.
They were, in short, good, wholesome, intel-
ligent women showing both independence
and conventionality and capable of most in-
teresting conversation.
The men present were few and far be-
tween. There was a former Register of the
United States Treasury, the President of
Wilberforce University and the Superintend-
ent of the Normal and Industrial Depart-
ment; those were all invited to address the
session, and Richard Harrison read. Taking
all in all, it was a convention to be remem-
bered.
(Over)
AT WILBERFORCE. OHIO. AUGUST 5-8, 1014
EDITORIAL
OF THE CHILDREN OF PEACE
OME, all my father’s chil-
dren, and sit beside my
knee, here with this child
of mine, and listen:
Have you ever seen a
soldier? It is a brave
sight, is it not? Once upon a time,
many, many years before your dear lit-
tle curly heads were born, I remember
seeing an army that marched because
a King was visiting an Emperor. Ber-
lin was joy mad. Houses streamed with
color and music reeled and rioted. Then
came the army. Tall, handsome men,
all gold and silver and broadcloth,
sworded, spurred and plumed, led on
horses that curvetted and tossed their
shining bits. (Do you not love a horse
with his great, sweet eyes and quivery,
shining softness?) Next came the sol-
diers, erect, rigid, “Eyes left!” Pit-pat,
pit-pat! Clasping their little innocent
guns. Next came the artillery: files of
wildly prancing horses dragging long
leaden things. How the crowd roared.
The King bowed to the Emperor and
the Emperor bowed to the King, and
there rose a great cry of pride and joy
and battle from the people. With that
cry I seemed suddenly to awake. I
somehow saw through;	(you know
sometimes how you seem to see, but are
blind until something happens and you
really see?)
I saw then what I see now. I saw
and see the WAR that men said could
not be.
Gone was all the brave tinsel, the
glitter, sheen and music. The men
trudged and limped, naked and dirty,
with sodden, angry, distorted faces;
their eyes were sunken and bloodshot,
with murder in them; they staggered
over corpses and severed arms and feet
and dead horses and they carried—not
little innocent guns, but little innocent
children; they dragged, not pale and
leaden guns, but pale and bounden
women, and before them staggered and
crept old women and grandfathers, the
sick and the maimed, the weak and the
half-grown boys and girls.
I heard the cry that hovered over
this fearsome army: it was a wail of
hunger and crime, of thirst and pain
and death, and the cry rose and met an
answering cry that came from beyond
the forest to the West.
Two toddling children slipped from
their fathers’ arms and met in the
gloom of that forest, where the beasts
cowered and livid, disbodied hands
seemed to creep in the darkness.
“Mother,” they whispered.
“Mama,” they cried.
“Miitterchen,” they sobbed.
Wild with horror two bound moth-
ers beat their naked hands against the
gun-carriages, groping and struggling
through the gloom, as death flamed
through their hearts.
Then the armies met. Two fathers
leapt from the two armies ahead and
each seized the other’s child. They
strangled and crushed and maimed and
290
THE CRISIS
murdered it, till each baby lay pale, limp
and dead.
(Nay, shrink not, my children; hor-
rible as the tale may be, the truth is
worse and you must know it.)
Then War was loose. Then six mil-
lion human beings left their fields of
golden grain and the busy hum of their
factories and taking their own children
for weapons dashed them against the
trees and the lampposts and the
churches and wallowed and gasped in
their blood!
Come, all my father’s children and
hear how beyond the blue mists of the
Everlasting Sea, the mothers mad with
hunger, grief and pain, are fronting the
blood-stained heavens with bared and
haunted breasts and are shrieking:
“Why?”
4‘Why ?”
Their shriek is the booming of guns,
and the booming of cannon is the shriek
of mothers.
And you must answer, Children of
Peace, you must answer!
You must cry: “There is no why!”
“The cause of War is Preparation for
War.”
“The cause of Preparation for War
is the Hatred and Despising of Men,
your and my Brothers.”
“War is murder in a red coat.”
“War is raped mothers and bleed-
ing fathers and strangled children.”
“War is Death, Hate, Hunger and
Pain!”
“Hell is War!”
And when you believe this with all
your little hearts;
And when you cry it across the seas
and across the years with all your little
voices—
Then shall the mothers of all dead
children hear;
Then shall the Sisters of all dead
Brothers hear; then shall the Daughters
of all dead Fathers hear; then shall the
Women rise and say:
“War is done.”
“Henceforward and forever there
shall be no organized murder of men,
for the children we bear shall be the
Children of Peace, else there shall be
no children.”
Amen!
But cry, little children, cry and cry
loud and soon, for until you and the
Mothers speak, the men of the world
bend stupid and crazed beneath the
burden of hate and death. Behold, this
old and awful world is but one slaugh-
ter-pen, one tale of innocent blood and
senseless hate and strife.
GEORGIA
Look yonder! In the gloomy forest
all is still, save here a red and flicker-
ing flame and there a last trembling sob.
Only one living thing passes across the
night: a horse—a gaunt, sweating horse,
with bloody nostrils, great pain-struck
eyes, and bowels trailing on the earth.
He hears his Emperor bugling “Vic-
tory !” to the King. Turning he stag-
gers toward him and whimpers as he
goes.
national ASSOCIATION FOR THE sa ss a
s « B ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE
You read Tiie Crisis, the organ of the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People. Are you a member of this Association?
The bogey of race prejudice, again brought to the fore by those who
seek to disguise the real issues of the ghastly war now raging and to justify
its awful carnage, we are pledged to defy. It is our constant experience
to deal with its hideous effects. Within the last month lynchings have
occurred within our borders which equal in barbarism any of the atrocities
which are reported from the theatre of war in Europe. Newspapers print
accounts of four such crimes in Louisiana alone during the month of
August.
Terrible as it is, the war will probably in the end do much to explode
the “might makes right” tradition, to make tangible democratic ideals, and
to lead men of different races to a mutual understanding of human brother-
hood. It may mean that at last the hour for the darker peoples has
come, that they are to have their opportunity for full self expression for
which they have waited in patience so long.
In peace or war, ours is the only Association in the world pledged to
fight race prejudice. Organized at the time the Springfield riots stirred
the country, it has made a most honorable record in its five years* struggle
to revive the spirit of Lincoln and Lovejoy. The work of the new Abolition
is your work—the greatest work of the century. “Once to every man and
nation comes the moment to decide.” This is your moment. Join us. Send
your dollar to-day.
292
THE CRISIS
A CHILDREN'S BUREAU
CJO many requests for the formation of a
^ Children’s Department have been re-
ceived by the National Association that a
committee has been appointed to consider
this matter and, if it seems feasible, to or-
ganize a juvenile auxiliary and to prepare a
curriculum to be used in the work. In its
struggle for equality of opportunity for col-
ored people the Association has interested
itself in a number of cases affecting chil-
dren and young people.
ga
SARAH RECTOR
/~\NE of these is the case of Sarah Rector,
a little colored girl living about eight
miles from Muskogee, Okla., on whose land oil
was discovered. Records of the Indian Office
show that Sarah, a Negro child, when three
years old, was enrolled as a Creek freedman.
Under the law then in force, citizens of the
Creek nation were allotted land by the gov-
ernment or were paid money in lieu of the
land to which they were entitled. In this
way this little girl came into possession of
ninety acres which it later developed was
valuable oil land and which, since October,
1913, has paid her in royalties almost $55,-
000. Sarah is now about eleven years old
and one of a family of six children who,
up to about a year ago, were living with
their parents on land belonging to the mother
in a shack with only one bed for the entire
family.
Press accounts elaim that the child’s in-
come, now estimated as high as fifteen thou-
sand dollars a month, was being administered
by a white guardian while Sarah herself
lived in poverty and was not even receiving
the benefit of good schools. The Association
has taken the matter up with the Children’s
Bureau in Washington. Miss Julia C.
Lathrop, the Chief of this Bureau, became
interested and is giving the matter her per-
sonal attention, corresponding with various
Oklahoma officials, including Miss Elate Bar-
nard who, as Superintendent of Charities of
that State, has made such a wonderful rec-
'ord for progressive reforms.
The governor of the State,. the county
judge and attorney all insist that the estate
is being carefully administered, that a new
home costing $1,700 has been erected, and
that Sarah is being sent to a local school be-
cause she is too young to be sent away. They
claim that the $50 a month allowed her is all
that she needs at present.
No official report has as yet been received
by this Association from the Children’s Bu-
reau or Miss Barnard.
The Association is indebted for much of
this data to Mr. James C. Waters, an active
member of the District of Columbia Branch,
who carried on considerable correspondence
with Oklahoma officials and the Children’s
Bureau and later turned over the matter to
this office.
JUVENILE COURT
A S the result of another case which was
brought to our attention, the National
Association is making a study of the relation
of the colored child to the Juvenile Courts
of the United States. It is impossible to
make an exhaustive investigation, but enough
representative cities will be included to give
a fair idea of actual conditions. The work
was suggested by an experience of Mrs.
Florence Kelley, Secretary of the Con-
sumers’ League and a member of our Board
of Directors, who recently visited the Ju-

THE N. A. A. C. P.
293
venile Courts of Memphis, Tenn. In the
colored court she found a little boy of four
and a half years held on the charge of burg-
lary and larceny. Gainer was a little waif,
without father or mother; he had so coveted
a pair of new shoes, a luxury which he had
probably never possessed in his life, that he
smashed the glass in a show window, helped
himself, and was making off with the shoes
when he was arrested.
When Mrs. Kelley found him he was hug-
ging a Teddy bear while he waited for his
sentence. Mrs. Kelley gives the full
story of Gainer’s case in the Survey for
June 20, 1914, with pictures of the colored
and white Juvenile Courts and a vivid ac-
count of their contrasting conditions.
The colored court is in an old six-room cot-
tage, badly equipped, but kept clean through
the efforts of Mrs. Julia Hook the matron in
charge, who has been doing work for colored
children since 1876. Mrs. Hook and her hus-
band, both probation officers, have more than
they can handle in caring for the boys and
girls who are detained in this building night
and day, since there is no other place to send
them. As the white judge has more than
he can possibly do, there is no judge sitting
in the colored court. Instead, a policeman
is assigned to probation work. As Mrs.
Kelley says, this is a travesty of the ju-
venile court.
m
A COLLEGE GIRL
OMPLAINTS reach us now and then of
the attempt of representative universi-
ties and colleges to discriminate against col-
ored students. A most aggravating case was
that of a refined young girl of cultured par-
ents who had won a scholarship in one of
the large colleges. She matriculated and
was settled in her room on the campus when
her roommate arrived. The roommate came
from Nashville, Tenn. The colored girl was
asked to leave and was unable to secure a
room on the campus or anywhere in the col-
lege town. One of the teachers, who is her
staunch friend, took her in but was unable
to solve more than the room problem. Then
began the weary search for board which was
finally only secured on condition that the
young lady would act as waitress. Though
she had never done work of this kind she
pluckily determined to stay on the ground
and fight out her battle. Meantime, the As-
sociation was working hard to reach the
proper authorities. Had the girl become
discouraged and gone home we would have
been able to do nothing. Fortunately, a
friend of the colored people on the board
of trustees of the college became interested
and succeeded in getting the girl on the cam-
pus in a delightful room where she is en-
titled to all the privileges of the college,
including, of course, the dining room. Best
of all, she is becoming popular with her
classmates and through her charming per-
sonality is winning friends for her race.
No case that the Association has won has
given more satisfaction than this victory
which would have been impossible had it not
been for the courage and character of the
young girl.
1
THE FAIRY GOOD
WILLA
By Minnibelle Jones, Written
When . She Was Ten
Years of Age
T N the good old days when the
kind spirits knew that people
trusted them, they allowed them-
selves to be seen, but now there are
just a few human beings left who
ever remember or believe that a
fairy ever existed, or rather does
exist. For, dear children, no mat-
ter how much the older folks tell
you that there are no fairies, do
not believe them. I am going to
tell you now of a dear, good fairy,
Goodwilla, who has been under tbe
power of a wicked enchanter called
Grafter, for many years.
"GOODWILLA”
Goodwilla was once a very happy and con-
tented little fairy. She was a very beautiful
fairy; she had a soft brown face and deep
brown eyes and slim brown hands and the
dearest brown hair that wouldn’t stay “put,”
that you ever saw. She lived in a beautiful
wood consisting of fir trees. Her house
was made of the finest and whitest
drifted snow and was furnished with kind
thoughts of children, good words of older
people and everything which is beautiful
and pleasant. She was always dressed in a
white robe with a crown of holly leaves on
her head. In her hand she carried a long
magic icicle, and whatever she touched with
this became very lovely to look upon. Snow-
drops always sprang up wherever she
stepped, and her dress sparkled with many
small stars.
The children loved Goodwilla, and she al-
ways welcomed them*to her beautiful home
where she told them of Knights and Ladies,
Kings and Queens, Witches and Ogres and
Enchanters. She never told them anything
to frighten them and the children were al-
ways glad to listen. You must not think
that Goodwilla always remained at home and
told the children stories, for she was a very
busy little fairy. She visited sick rooms
where little boys or girls were suffering and
laid her cool brown hands on their heads,
whispering beautiful words to them. She
touched the different articles in the room
with her magic icicle and caused them to
become lovely. Wherever she stepped her
beautiful snowdrops were scattered. At
other times she went to homes where the
father and mother were unhappy and cross.
She was invisible to them, but she touched
them without their knowing it and they in-
stantly became kind and cheerful. Other
days she spent at home separating the good
deeds which she had piled'before her, from
the bad deeds. So you see with all of these
things to do Goodwilla was very busy.
Now, there was an old enchanter who lived
in a neighboring wood. He was very wealthy,
but people feared him, although they visited
him a great deal. His house was set in the
THE FAIRY GOOD WILLA
295
midst of many trees, all of which bore golden
and silver apples. The house was made of
precious metal and the inside was seemingly
handsome. But looking closely one could
see that the beautiful chairs were very
tender and if not handled rightly they would
easily break. Music was always being played
softly by unseen musicians, but one who
truly loved music could hear discords which
spoiled the beauty of all. In fact, every-
thing in his palace, although seemingly beau-
tiful, if examined closely, was very wrong.
Grafter, which
was the enchan-
ter’s name,
spent all of his
time in instruct-
ing men how to
be prosperous
and receive all
that they could
for nothing. He
did not pay
much attention
to the children,
although once
in a while a few
listened to his
evil words. He
was always very
busy, but some-
how he did not
at all times get
the results he
expected.	H e
scratched	h i s
head and
thought and
thought. Final-
ly, oue day he cried, “Ah, I have it,
there is an insignificant little fairy called
Goodwilla who is meddling in my affairs,
PH wager. Let me see how best I can
overcome her.” The old fellow who could
change his appearance at will, now became a
handsome young enchanter and looked so
fine that it would be 'almost impossible for
the fairy herself to resist him. He made his
way to her abode and asked for admittance
to her house. She gladly bade him enter,
for, although she knew him, she thought she
could persuade him to forego his evil ways
and win men by fair means.
Now something strange happened. Every
chair that Grafter attempted to take became
invisible when he started to seat himself and
he found nothing but empty air. After this
had happened for a long while, he became so
angry that he forgot the part he was trying
to play and acted very badly indeed. He
stormed at poor Goodwilla as if she had been
the cause of good deeds and kind words to
vanish at his touch. “You, Madam,” said he,
“are the cause of this, and I know now why
I cannot be successful in my work. You fill
the children’s heads full of nonsense and
when I have almost persuaded the fathers
to do something which will benefit them as
well as their children, these brats come with
their prattle and undo all that I have done.
Now I have
stood it long
enough. I shall
give you three
trials, and if
you d<? not con-
quer, you shall
be under my
power for seven
hundred years.’’
The Good
Fairy listened
and felt very
grieved, but she
knew that Graf-
ter was strong-
er than she, as
minds of men
turned more to
his commanding
way than they
did to hers.
Nevertheless she
determined to do
her best and
said, “Very well,
Grafter, I shall
do as you wish and if I do not succeed
I am in your hands, but later everything
will be all right and I shall rule over you.”
Grafter, who had not expected this, now be-
came alarmed and thought by soft words he
could perhaps coax her to do his way, but
Goodwilla was strong and would not listen
to his cajoling and flattering. “Then,
Madam,” he said, “I shall force you to per-
form these tasks or be my slave.:
“First, you must cause all of the people in
the world to help and give to others for the
sake of giving and not for what they shall
receive in return.
“Secondly, you must cause all of the rich
to help the poor instead of taking from them
to swell their already fat pocketbooks, and
thirdly, you must cause men and women to
OHIO
296
THE CRISIS
really love for love’s sake and not because
of worldly reasons.”
The poor little fairy sighed deeply, for she
knew that she could not perform these tasks
in the three days that Grafter had allowed
her. She talked to the children, but they
were being dazzled by Grafter since he had
become so handsome. Goodwilla continued
to work though, and had just commenced to
open men’s eyes to Grafter as he really was,
when the three days expired.
She was immediately whisked off by the
wicked old fellow, who chuckled with glee.
He did not know that there were many peo-
ple in whose hearts a seed had been planted
(which would grow) by this good little fairy
and that she herself had a plan for helping
all when she was released. Grafter, after
having locked her up, departed on his way
rejoicing. He has been prosperous for a
long, long time, but the seven hundred years
are almost up now, and soon Goodwilla will
come forth stronger and more beautiful thaD
ever with the children as her soldiers.
Frederick Douglass III.
A Great-Grandfather’s
Great Grandson
The Son of
Joseph and Fanny Howard Douglass
age Seven Months
A LULLABY
By Cora J.
Dusky lashes droop and fall,
Night-winds whisper, night-birds call.
Close your tired sleepy eyes,
Earth is singing lullabies.
Kindly twilight shadows creep
O’er a world that longs for sleep.
Little dusky babe of mine
Close those 6leepy eyes of thine.
Mother's love will softly keep
Watch above you while you sleep.
Cruel hate and deadly wrong
Cannot silence mother's song
Ball Moten
Though against thy soft browm cheek
She may hide her face and weep.
Sleep, brown baby, while you may
Peacefully, at close of day.
Oh, that mother’s love could guard,
Keep thee safe ’neath watch and ward
From the cruel deadly things
That await thee while she sings.
Prejudice and cold white hate.:
These, my baby, these, thy fate,
Little, gentle, trustful thing,
Thus, these sobs, the while I sing.
m m m
WAR	® a a
Said the Lord of Hosts:
I am weary of this multitude of prayers.
They ascend to me through the sound of
the cannon
And the sharp sound of the bullet.
The petitions of the warriors greet me,
They disturb me not at all;
But to-day came the prayer of a child,
A little child, a daughter.
She turned her face to the sky,
And held up her hands to heaven;
She cried: Give me back my father!
Descend thou, therefore, to the earth,
And tell me of the battle.
Then the seraphim, his two wings out-
spread, dropped from the celestial
heights. When he returned, the odor
of smoke was upon his hair.
I have seen the desolation of Russia,
oh, Master, and have heard the cries of
its women as alone they garner the
grain.
I have passed over the Emperor’s do-
minion, he who calls upon Thy name;
Thy name is continually in his mouth,
and boys are left to stand guard at the
city gates.
In the land of the Flemmings are
smoking houses and ravished daughters.
The cannon thunders at the gateway
of France, and Saxon and Gaul fall like
nuts in an October storm.
Desolation is in the East and the
West is desolate. The pyres of the dead
burn on the hillside where the violets
bloomed, and the dead cover the mead-
ows once azure with the forget-me-not.
Then the Lord of Hosts entered into
His temple and rested for a while in
thought. And beneath His feet slowly
the earth turned on its appointed round.
And again He called to Him the sera-
phim, and said:
The prayers of the mothers and the
children
Shall be answered.
The cannon shall cease and the rifles.
Again shall man rise in the morning
To till the soil.
He shall listen to the song of the lark,
And shall watch the low flight of the
swallow.
But the seraphim raised his eyes to
his Master, and answered:
I have visited the earth again, oh,
Lord, and the face she now turns is full
of gladness. The people cry, Rejoice,
for the Lord of Battle hath revenged
us on our enemies!
Ethiopia holds up her hacked limbs.
They gathered our hands in their bas-
kets, and now their dead hands rest on
their cold hearts.
The Arab stands by the vast inland
sea and joy lights his face. Our fathers
were slain by the invaders, and to-day
an invader’s steel strikes down our ene-
my upon his own sod.
In the east are great multitudes call-
ing. We remember! We remember!
We rebelled, and they came and slew
and tied our men to the cannon’s mouth.
And low the cannon cut them down as
the knife cuts the fodder for the cattle.
To the north men call gleefully, The
Cossack! The Cossack! They who beat
and tortured themselves fall under the
rod.
And on Thy most lovely island in the
western ocean, men and women sit by
their scarred hill, and remember the
palms and the song and the gay dance,
and weep for the multitudes who died
that the greed of the Teuton might
flourish. But anon they rise and give
praise that the string is broken and the
feet are still in the house of their enemy.
Then the Lord of Hosts moved out of
the temple and looked down upon the
earth.
As they have sowed
So shall they reap.
Let it go on,
He said.	M. W. O.
m OUR is s
BABY PICTURES
XITE have received from mothers and
fathers throughout the nation, and
even from beyond its boundaries, 350 pic-
tures and every mail brings more. From
these we have selected 89 for publication.
At first we tried to make our selections
with some system and according to certain
rules of human interest, beauty and physical
type. All this, however, was quickly given
up and we frankly confess that there is no
reason in the world why most of the pictures
which we have not used should not have been
printed instead of these. Many, of course,
came to us too late and many others were
too imperfect for use. As it is we are hold-
ing a large number in the hope that we may
be allowed to use them another year.
The pictures which we have published may
be considered from many points of view.
CUBA
The students of a great social prob-
lem will look upon them first as
physical types. No sooner has he
looked with this in mind than cer-
tainly the fiction of the physical
degeneracy of American Negroes
must disappear. True, these are
selected children, mostly from the
well-to-do of a large group; but a
careful consideration of the total
pictures received by The Crisis in
three years which will aggregate
over a thousand makes it seem cer-
tain that there is growing up in
the United States a large and larger
class of well-nourished, healthy,
beautiful children among the col-
ored people. That this little army
is flanked by the large numbers of
the miserable and unhealthy is, of
course, true; but the whole argu-
ment of Negro haters has long said
that health and physique among
colored people was not a matter of
nourishment and surroundings but
of inescapable hereditary ills. A
glance at our pages this month will
MICHIGAN
OUR BABY PICTURES
299
WISCONSIN
certainly help to show what arrant
nonsense this thesis is.
As social problems these children
are of greatest interest. They are
beautiful, bright and wholesome.
There is no reason in the world
why in any civilized human society
they should not easily, gracefully,
and effectively take their place and
do their work, receiving the respect
due to decent human beings. With
few exceptions they "will be well
educated and suitably trained. Few
of them are born to wealth but they
will be well-fed and well-groomed.
Most of them will receive higher
training and are destined to become
prime factors among the leading
group of the race.
Notwithstanding all this, they
will be looked upon as “problems.”
They will be critically considered
and impudently measured and stu-
died. They will be compelled to
prove before a prejudiced jury that
they have a right to be treated as
normal American citizens. Of
course, in their case, the assump-
tions and the inhuman prejudice
will not be as great as in the case
of their fathers but it will be ap-
preciable and despicable.
This brings the humau side of
the whole great human question
which The Crisis primarily dis-
cusses. Here are members of
homes, loved by tender human
hearts. Is it not the disgrace of
the century, a disgrace even greater
than the present European war
that the foremost republic on earth
should be directing its greatest bat-
tle not against war and poverty and
prejudice, but against these dark
little babies?
More than this, it is dark chil-
dren like these that in a sense are
the cause of the present barbarous
war in Europe. The rivalry of
/	leading European countries in their
fP lust for colonies is the underlying
cause of this war. Most of these
colonies are wanted because they
are inhabited by dark people whom
t lie moral sense of the modern
world allows to be exploited and
half enslaved. Such colonies are
NEW JERSEY
300
THE CRISIS
ALABAMA
to-day paying for the luxuries of
Berlin, London, Paris and New
York. For such luxuries and world
power the leaders of civilization
have become ravenous beasts. Sure-
ly we can find in the faces of these
children, not simply argument
against war, but argument against
the greatest modern cause of war,—
race prejudice.
As for these children of the sun :
The nation of which they and their
fathers form a part or the individ-
uals among whom they move may,
in large measure, choose their fu-
ture. If given a chance, these chil-
dren may develop into, social units
of worth and value. With a con-
tinuation of the present methods of
race proscription and restriction,
the world will be the loser; find
that just in so far as these babes
of darker skin are denied „ the op-
portunities to reach the maximupa
in efficiency and service. r\
TEXAS
THE LETTER BOX

Mr. Oswald Garrison Villard.
My Dear Sir:—I found your letter of
May 21 awaiting me when 1 returned this
morning from a ten-day’s trip in various
parts of South Carolina. I am grateful to
you for a complete copy of your Baltimore
address, and have read it carefully, letting
some very urgent matters wait until 1 had
finished it. While it is masterful in its way,
it merely hints at the awful condition of the
Negro of the South. For six years I have
been noting the Negro’s abuse at the hands
of the so-called polite “Knighthood of
Dixie” and at times my blood runs cold and
I am tempted to pray for the strength of a
Samson, and instead of the jawbone of an
ass, a modern machine gun. But the calmer
second thought says that is not the way, and
I am made to
appreciate the
calm patience of
the down-trod-
den black man
who, in many
instances, ap-
pears to think
that patience is
the panacea for
the ills that a
civilization that
is only skin
deep has thrust
upon him. In
memory I re-
vert to the days
of slavery, for
I can remember
them vaguely,
and I recall how
my grandfather
was touched
with the great
wrong of the
black m a n’s
bondage-
touched so deep,
that in 1853 he
gave seventy
black men and
women their
freedom, in so
far as freedom could be given to them
in those days. I recall the black mammy
of my childhood, who with a kindli-
ness akin to godliness, cared for me. But
to-day I am told by the white tyrants of the
South that that black mammy had no vir-
tue, but was merely a lustful brute in human
form. She taught me my first prayer, and
I am sure that at that court where there is
no color line nor the swagger of white su-
premacy by the right of might, she has met
the reward that is promised to patient piety.
* •	• I have made notation of the time
and place where the black man has been
wantonly wronged, and in many instances
where the tax he pays is used to educate the
white children of his neighborhood. If 1
only had the chance to tell what I know,
and feel secure while telling it! I have stu-
died the prob-
lem psychologi-
cally, commerci-
ally, and at all
its angles, and
I am compelled
to say that the
abuse of the
black man is the
rot at the root
of progress in
the South. He
is the great in-
dustrial force of
the South. He
does everything
that is done on
less than half
rations and half
pay. There is
scarcely a for-
tune in the
South that has
been accumulat-
ed within the
last forty years
that is not
streaked with
Negro blood.
• • • I want
to get out of the
shadow — yes,
the withering
WILLIAM PICKENS, JR.. AND HIS SISTERS
302
THE CRISIS
ILLINOIS
are carried away as evidences of
white justice in a so-called “white
man’s country.”
Yours very sincerely,
I must take oil* my hat to The
Crisis as a medium of constant
good in the work of Negro uplift.
Its ability to marshall and present
facts, its beautiful English, its co-
gent reasoning, its character, put it
at the head of colored publications
intrinsically as well as numerically.
Then, again, its circulation among
the whites — worthy, worth-while
white folk who never see a colored
publication, enhances its value
greatly. I wish it were celebrating
its twentieth birthday rather than
its fourth or fifth.
R. B. Lemus.
Boston, Mass.
shadow of men who resort to the
practice of the South that is re-
sponsible for the blue-eyed Negro,
and then shout themselves hoarse
about the immaculate purity of the
white man. I want to get away
from the hypocracy <Jf men who will
steal to the Negro cabin under the
cover of night and with beastial
lustfulness ravish the colored wom-
an or debauch ignorant black wom-
anhood in the cotton field, and at
the same time and in the face of
such practices proclaim that the
South is the place where the only
mundane saints are grown, and that
these are all white saints. Yes, I
want to get away from the places
where the black man, in obedience
to the blot on his brain, piaced
there by two hundred years of
white lustfulness, is tried by Judge
Lynch, and after he is dead and his
body mutilated such gruesome
trophies as severed fingers and ears
THE LETTER BOX
303
Editor of The Crisis:
Your account in the October Crisis of
Fred. A. Houston, railway postal clerk of
Sacramento, Cal., is interesting, because of
its pathetic irony. I hope it will be the
means of awakening a deep sympathy for
the efficient and worthy colored men in the
railway mail service who are now facing
government inquisition and volumes of vul-
gar abuse by jealous white clerks.
The writer, who is in a position to ap-
preciate Mr. Houston’s narrative better
than most of }rour readers, can put his
finger on another young railway mail clerk
who had to go through the same embarras-
sing ordeal, hundreds of miles from Mr.
Houston, but with a parallel record and
under different officials.
Here is his examination record covering
the short space of six months in the same
year:
PER CENT.
March ..............................98.19
Forty days later....................97.86
The next day........................99.41
Four months and 18 days later.. .98.72
Thirty days later...............100.00
Average.................98.84
This clerk was a new man, having been
in the service less than eight months, yet
for five days each week he made an aver-
age of from twelve to fifteen hours, working
hard trains and handling thousands of
pounds of mail per day. He was responsi-
bly in part for the exact distribution, care
and proper delivery of tons of mail in five
different railway postoffices the same day.
Those who have never worked in a railway
postoffice cannot possibly understand the
physical and mental strain upon such a
clerk, and that, too, when the few hours
given him for rest had to be used in pre-
paring these constant examinations. Yet
his record never showed over four pieces of
mail carried by, delayed or missent during
any single month. (It is not unusual for
the best clerks to make from one to one
hundred errors per month, also some de-
merits for minor irregularities constantly
occurring in the mail service.)
This clerk received a letter containing in
part the same words as Mr. Houston’s and
further stating that he was not possessed of
any requisite in the making of a clerk, and,
as a matter of mere form and additional
embarrassment, was given the customary
“ten days” to show good cause why he
should not be removed.
These officious letters with their patented
official formality and unspecific charges
victimize the clerk absolutely and leave him
no grounds for defense; and it is just as
impossible for the victimized clerk to make
the “necessary reply” as it is for colored
men in the South to interpret certain sec-
tions of the State constitutions to the
satisfaction of the green-eyed, lynching-
hearted pollholder, who is made the sole
arbiter of the colored man’s fitness for
suffrage. The clerk’s masterly reply to these
letters is like waving the red flag before the
enraged beast, and the finer vindication he
makes, if he happens to be colored, the
more is the beast enraged.
Young Houston’s excellent record and his
account of himself and portrayal of the in-
ward workings would show him to represent
that class of colored young men of such
extraordinary fitness and efficiency as to be
intolerable. His record is far beyond scores
of clerks of any race in my part of the
country.
It is such an unusual thing for a mail
clerk to make 100 per cent, in any of the
many examinations he must pass to remain
in the service that when such does happen
the particular clerk becomes the subject of
honorable mention in the weekly bulletins
issued from headquarters and distributed to
the hundreds of clerks, officials and order
books throughout his division.
“It is not a question of the colored clerks’
education, qualification and industry,” said
an editor recently in one of the journals
devoted to the railway mail service; “it is a
question of instinct.”
When prejudice is God, how can merit
win?	_
(Signed) Houston’s Friend.
m
I: felt lost without The Crisis this month,
so £ent to Chicago to get one. It is the
meat of moral fibre to one so far from
colored humanity. Nothing said against
it by anyone about any of its integral parts
should discourage that phase of the work.
Let; the truth be the light and idealism the
goal for us as for all, and accept no com-
promise in this second emancipation, so
much more necessary than Lincoln’s.
Alonzo C. Thayer,
Winona, Minn.
m m	OUR puzzle box	m m
(For the Children)
Rhymed Enigma
My first is in dog but not in cat,
My second in robin but not in bat,
My third is in hut but not in hall,
My fourth is in spring but not in fall.
My fifth is in lamb but not in goat,
My sixth is in carry but not in tote,
My seventh is in lass but not in lad,
My eighth is in dressed but not in clad.
My whole is the name of a famous man
Guess the answer if you can.
Word Square
A piece of thick paper,
A melody,
A brook,
A valley.
Charade
Within the blackness of my first
My last comes riding by.
It is my whole! I gasp athirst,
And waken with a cry.
Numeral Enigma
(A numerical enigma is set up like this:
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14,
15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24.
As you guess the words write the letter
under its numeral.)
My whole is composed of 24 letters, and is
a well-known proverb.
5,	23, 18 = a barnyard fowl.
3,	12, 7, 19 = instruments for opening
locks.
14, 2, 24, 9 = a breakfast dish.
21 = a personal pronoun.
20, 6, 1, 11, 15, 13 = the hero of one of
Shakespeare’s plays.
17, 22, 8, 10, 16, 4 = foolish.
Send us in your answers to these puzzles.
A year’s subscription to the Crisis will
be given for the first correct solution of all
the puzzles.
MARTLAUD
CALIFORNIA
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
305
Registration of Pupils
Hours : 10 to 12 A. M, 2 to 5 P. M. daily.
Evenings, Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7 to 9.
Applications from out of town will receive
prompt attention.
It will bo tka tin to aiki tka 3ch—1 tho Baikal cniir
of tka eaaamitr to carry tka iafl—af W pW asic
iaio as many kaatt as poaaikU.
ROSAMOND JOHNSON
sapamaioa ot
OF THE NEW ENGLAND CONSERVATORY
TTie New Home of the
MUSIC SCHOOL SETTLEMENT
4 and 0 West 131st Street, New York City
The Music School Settlement will open for the
Fall Term in'its new buildings on October 1, 1914.
The increased facilities of the School will
enable the work to be conducted on a greatly
enlarged scale.
Thorough vocal and instrumental instruction in
the classics will be given according to standard
conservatory methods, and the opportunity will
be offered students to become proficient in all
branches of music; at the same time, earnest study
of the value and potentiality of Afro-American
folk-music will be made.
Two of the main features of the School will be
a large chorus trained in the singing of folk-song,
choral music and oratorio, and a symphony
orchestra made up of students.
There will be no increase in tuition fees.
Worthy pupils who cannot afford to pay for
lessons will be given scholarship*.
Do you like the
CRISIS?
If you do you are willing to help in-
crease its circulation. You can do that
by speaking to your friends about the
magazine. If you wish sample copies
sent to your friends' simply drop us a
card with names and addresses.
THE CRISIS
70 Fifth Avenue	New York City
ADVANCE STYLES
FREE
Suits
To Introduce
Here we go ajrain. break-
ing all reoordi.
nobt
noordi for naw,
_ jby, ahead-of-lhe-iltne
atylaa. Ba tha first tn your town
to <«V a aoit that U ah aad ai (ha
tim«. Too ean do It FB£E. To
lotrodoea. thaaa atylea
v
It
■tylea quickly
i cornpiata aalt
TTinnf it 700
$50 to $100 a Week
Jra will qtra
raa, and by
7\>cr
Drop b* a poatal tart
book.aalact tba atylea joe wul
and lha cloth, aad sat
Your Suit FREE
• Don't wait. Don’t dalay. Wrtta
right away. A poatal will do. Wa
aaod wr ary thin* .tha day your
raqoaat la racaivad. Wa pay ax-
praia ae aaarythins. Oj\ bear.
Simply aaod aa a poataJ with
fata MBa aad addraaa M it.
Pjwm Tailoring Co.
k 1051 CHlCAOO
Wear Next
Season’s
Style
NOW
TEACHERS—ATTENTION!
Competent teacher* can *ecure good position* in the South. The demand for teacher* who can hold
position* as Principal* or Department Heads i* greatly in excess of the supply. We make it our business to
End the place for you that you have prepared yourself to fill. Send stamp for further information with
registration blank and contract. Address:
TEXAS COLORED TEACHERS’ AGENCY, P. 0. Box D 1099, DALLAS, TEXAS
Mention Ths Caisxs
306
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
SCHOOL OF BEAUTY CULTURE AND HAIR DRESSING
Kelsey’s Hair Dressing, Hair Grower, ‘Scalp Tonic and Face Lotion have no equal. Price, 50c. each.
Guaranteed under Food and Drug Act, June 30, 1906.
KELSEY’S
Telephone, Morningsido 8162
143 West 131st St.
NEW YQRK
Manicuring, Shampooing, Hair Dressing, Marcel Wav-
ing. Facial and Body Massage, Hair Making, Chiropody,
etc., scientifically taught. Unlimited practice in parlor
day and night. Pupils taught at home, if desired.
Diplomas. Special Summer Course, $7.50 up. Send for
booklet. Mme. A. Carter Kelsey, Gen’l Instr.; Dr. Samuel
A. Kelsey, Chiropodist, President and Gen'l Manager.
TEACHERS' 70hrc ■*& "V3"?
selecting teachers, through a live agency that furnishes
the connecting medium in a business way, saves time
of school, officials, relieves teachers of the embarrass-
ment of job hunting and covers the whole country.
We have had calls for teachers from Alabama,
Arkansas, Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida,
Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Mis-
sissippi, Missouri, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Rhode
Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia
and West Virginia.	L
Our list of teachers covers even a wider territory.
THE MUTUAL TEACHERS’ AGENCY
1335 T Street, N. W.	Washington, D. C.
No. 24 Southern Buggy
Highest Grade
A Value Unequaled. Soldon Ji.oo
Profit Margin
Factory to User
Write for price*
and other style*.
Send for catalogr
C. R. PATTERSON
A SONS,
Greenfield, Ohio
Largest Negro Carriage concern In the United States.
Start a Mail Order Business and Make Money
You can operate in your own home during spare
time. The parcel post has opened up the doors of
opportunity to YOU. Others are making $20 to $500
a week. Why can’t you? By our method you can
start with $5 and up. Wc offer you thirty live,
money-making mail order plans. You can make 95
cents profit of every dollar order. We furnish cir-
culars, printed matter and place your advertising at
lowest rates. Send 10 cents for complete outfit. Do
it today—Now I
MAIL DEALERS WHOLESALE HOUSE
517 Dearborn Street	Chicago, 111.
RELIABLE, LIVE,
RESPONSIBLE MEN
who can sell real estate can MAKE MORE
than $200 PER MONTH acting as AGENTS
for the sale of our properties in MUSKOGEE
and TAFT, OKLAHOMA. The real coming
country where there are opportunities and
openings for all. Write jus to-day, giving
your age and experience, and we will offer
you a FINE PROPOSITION WHICH
WILL MAKE YOU MONEY. Address
REEVES REALTY CO.
Department C
217 Flynn-Ahis Bldg. Muskogee, Okla.
Made-to-ileasiire
Express $^75
Prepaid
Pants cut in the latest
style. Made-to-your in-
dividual measure. Fit,
workmanship and wear
guaranteed.
No Extra Charge
for peg tops, no matter how
extreme you order them.
Agents Wanted
A good live hustler in every
town to take orders for our
colobratod made-to-meas-
ure clpthes. Samples of all
the latest materials FREE.
We Pay Big Money
to our agents everywhere.
Turn your spare time into
cash by taking orders for our
stylish clothes. Write today
for beautiful FREE outfit.
THE PROGRESS TAILORING CO.
Department 129	::	CHICAGO
$25.00 PER WEEK
may be made in commissions by parties handling
“History of Negro Soldiers in Spanish-American
War” combined with “History of the Negro Race.
400 pages, 50 illustrations. Price $1.25 net.
Address:	E. A. JOHNSON
154 Nassau Street	NEW YORK
REGALIA
Race Enterprise
Manufacturing Badges,
Banners and Supplies
for all Fraternal and
Church Societies. Cat-
alog upon request.
CENTRAL REGALIA CO.
Jo*. L. Jones, Pros.
N. E. Corner 8th end Plum Streets, Cincinnati, Ohl#
Mention Th« C*i«is
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
307
“ That Indian Summer Time99
The Autumn Exposition and Amusement Festival
MANHATTAN CASINO AND PARK
155th Street and Eighth Avenue, New York City
September 28-29-30 and October 1-2, 1914
The Most Stupendous Amusement and Advertising Affair and the First and Only Thing of its Kind
•ever Offered by our People. Write, call or telephone for circulars of particulars.
If you are in business, exhibit or advertise at the Exposition.
If you enjoy amusements, come to the Exposition. You'll find the best.
ROGERS & CORKER, Publicity Committee—Telephone Andaboa S52—Manhattan Casino Building:
Atlanta University
Studies of the
Negro Problems
17 Monographo	Sold Separately
Address
ATLANTA UNIVERSITY CONFERENCE
ATLANTA UNIVERSITY	ATLANTA. GA.
The Curse of Race Prejudice
By James F. Morton, Jr., A. M.
An aggressive exposure by an Anglo-Saxon cham-
pion of equal rights. Startling facts and crushing
arguments. Fascinating reading. A necessity for
clear understanding and up-to-date propaganda. Be-
longs in the library of every friend of social justice.
Price 25 cents. Send orders to
JAMES F. MORTON, JR.
211 West 138th Street	New York, N. Y.
FREE TO MINISTERS ONLY
Swedenborg's “Arcana Cclestia,’’ Vol. I., and one
of the following for 30 cents to cover postage:
“The True Christian Religion," “The Apocalypse
Revealed," “Divine Love and Wisdom,” “Heaven
and Hell,” “Divine Providence," and "Biography of
Swedenborg," by Worcester.
These books are cloth bound and run in pages from
277 to 1100.
REV. L. O. LANDENBERGER
3741 Windsor Place	■ «■	St. Louis, Mo.
WANTED
Agents for THE CRISIS. Dignified work.
70 Fifth Avenue, New York.
A NEW WAY
To Get Your Clothes Free
A NEW PLAN TO MAKE
BIG MONEY DURING
YOUR SPARE TIME
Something different — better,
bigger, more liberal than any
offer ever made. Lower
prices—better clothes—
bigger cash profits—Ex-
press paid on everything.
Double Pay
FREE clothes and cash profits
besides. We don’t ask you
to use your cash profits for
your own clothes. Ours is a
new and better plan.
An Extra Present with every order. Not a Drize
scheme. Choose what you want, work for it ana g£
it besides your Cash Profits. Agent's Com-
plete Outfit FREE, fifty-six stylish, real cloth
samples — fifty Fashion Plates. Inside wholesale
prices. Everything FREE. Get into the big
money-making class. Just put your name on a
post card and mail it to us today.
SPENCER MEAD CO., Dept. 620, Chicago
MANY MORE TEACHERS
are needed to supply the demands upon us. Hundreds of
experienced or well-prepared teachers can join us to their
advantage. We can place you if you can be placed.
THE NATIONAL TEACHERS* AGENCY
B. F. BOWLES. Maaager
2730 CONVERSE AVE. EAST ST. LOUIS. ILL.
DO YOU BUY BOOKS?
See Special List, Page 311
Ship your Yam Sweet Potatoes, Poultry, Eggs and other Farm Product* to
GHOLSON & COMPANY
THE MOST RELIABLE PRODUCE HOUSE	1532 South St., Philadelphia, Pa.
Mention Txs Cxisxs
308
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
MILES M. WEBB
School of Practical Photography
All branches of photography taught.
Terms reasonable. Service efficient.
Three courses: Amateur, intermediate,
professional. Register now.
3519 So. State Street Chicago, III.
Telephone Douglass 6688
Your Next Suit
Hand Tailored —
Classy Unings-
Mlllionalre Trim-
rolngs—Swell Cut-
irantced Fit.
jBtmr
FffiEE
Made to Your Measure
$30 to $40 would not
buy n bettor one. but you
KOt it for nothinB- Not ft
cent to pay. Simply wear
it, tell your friends whore
you got it, and mako
sl®to$|5a Day
taking their orders. It Is
dr ad easy. Yoa never saw a nob-
bier suit or a more stunning pat-
tern, cut in strirtlyTnnao style (3
months ahead of tnc times). y our
choice of 60 patterns and a doien
different stylos to choose from.
Drop us a postal card for heovy
pattern book. Insido Information
about styles, scif-meaaurinff.
blanks, etc., etc. Don't wait.
Everything free — We pay e«-
rressage. Get ahead of the other
ellriwn—write this very minute.
A poets I will do It.
AMERICAN WOOLEN MILLS CO.
Dopt. 1051 CHICAQ
XJ F VP* Sell Reliable Watches, Clocks and Jewelry
\/\/ M Make Your Watch Run On Time.
V V 22-4 Are Expert Repairers.
J. F. EVANS, 415 Cotton Avonue, Macon, Ga.
Good Words for the CRISIS
HOTEL COMFORT AND CAFE
Open all the Year
Corner Second Street and Bay Arcane
Ocean City, New Jersey
Mrs. M. B. Comfort, Proprietress.
Beautiful location, fine view of Great
Egg Harbor Bay, the Inlet and the At-
lantic Ocean. Boating, bathing, fishing
and tennis. Thirty minutes to Atlantic
City by electric cars or steamboats.
“Even though I have heretofore written no
complimentary letters, you may believe that
my appreciation is sincere.
“My children and I take great pleasure in
adorning our school room with Crisis pic-
tures. I find it an excellent means of teach-
ing them to appreciate the ideals of their own
race.
“I would advise all colored teachers to use
this method for instilling in their pupils a
love for their own people, who are, after all,
so very beautiful.
“Emily C. Barney (teacher),
“New Orleans, La.”
GEORGIA STATE COLORED FAIR
NOVEMBER 18-28, 1914
Wants Colored Entertainers
$5000.00 IN PREMIUMS
Writs R. R. WRIGHT, Preside*, SAVANNAH, GA
at? $60 WEEKLY
Robinson Folding Btih Tub. Biff Mil«r. CooUlittlo,
j, no plnmbinf, LiUlo wotor. Weight 16 pounds,
folds into small roll. Fall lsnfth baths, fsr betUr
__	___U»lobs. Oea/aatasdlOysan. flO *<Uy ssslly *ns<U. Writs
BsbisscmCsbUsOUpCo., KHTssi-tssBld*.,®Ss4«MX
“It is with great pleasure that I renew my
subscription to your valuable magazine. I
read it carefully each month, and find it very
instructive and inspiring. It inspires me to
see what progress your race is making with
the odds overwhelmingly against them.
“Having been born ana reared in the South
and having lived for twenty-four years in the
North I have been able to get the views of
both sections on the Negro problem.
“My heart goes out to your people in their
brave struggle, and I feel that I want to do
whatever I can to encourage them.
“Samuel Guy Snowden (minister),
“Trenton, New Jersey.”
Mention Tbs Crisis
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
309
HAZEL
The Story of a Little Colored Girl
By MARY WHITE OVINGTON
PRESS COMMENTS
From “The Brooklyn Eagle ”, Brooklyn,
N. Y.
Miss Ovington here reveals a gift by
no means common—the gift of writing
in a style that will appeal to the child
mind, a style that is clear, direct and
picturesque. Any child, regardless of
race or color, would be interested in the
little book, and many a grown-up would
find the hour spent in its perusal one of
entertainment and refreshment.
From “The Four Seas”, Boston, Mass.
A good child’s story is the hardest to
write, because most authors of juvenile
books think that being silly is the cor-
rect method of writing a child’s story.
"HAZEL’’ is a book which every sane-
minded person of larger growth will
read with pleasure and because its
heroine arouses a feeling of sympathy,
every reader will be better disposed to-
ward the colored people. This book
ought to endure as long as “Alice in
Wonderland,’’ for it is the best child’s
story written since Selma Lagerhof’s
“Adventures of Nils.”
From “The Amsterdam News”, New
York City.
“HAZEL” is a story of juveniles for
juveniles that is certainly good enough
for the grown-up, who, in the rush of
growing up, has not lost all memories
of that delightful period . . . The story
is full of pathos and tenderness and is
informing to boot, and is good reading
for both races.
From “The Springfield Republican”,
Springfield, Mass.
The genius and sympathy of women
has had much, thus far, to do with the
lightening of the black man’s burden,—
beginning with Harriet Martineau and
Mrs. Stowe, and much remains for
them to do. Mrs. Howe had her share
in the “Battle Hymn” and many women
since have lent a hand or lifted a voice.
Mary White Ovington who writes this
volume . . . has a closer and clearer view
of the character of colored citizens and
their children, North and South, than
Mrs. Stowe had of the slaves whose
chains she helped to break, and she
writes with less energy, but she pro-
duces the result aimed at, in the mind of
the comparative few who will read her
book. If it could be read and appreci-
ated* by Speaker Clarke and the women
of the South their views on “segrega-
tion” would be modified.
From “The Living Church ”, New York.
The novelty of a story in regard to
colored children and intended for
colored children is at hand in “HAZEL”
by Mary White Ovington, author of
Half a Man. It is no “story with a pur-
pose” nor does it purport to raise, much
less to solve, a problem; yet if any one
can read it and not have the awful
pathos of the life of our colored people
bear down upon him anew as a terrible
burden which we Americans must bear,
he must be less than human. If we only
understood!
Postage extra.
Price $1.00, net,
Address:
THE CRISIS
70 FIFTH AVENUE	NEW YORK CITY
Mention The Cmisis
310
THE CRISIS ADVERTISER
LEGAL DIRECTORY
- /Central 104-W
Telephones: {Main 61
HARRY E. DAVIS
Attornby-at-Law	Notary Public
1607 Williamson Building	Cleveland, Ohio
Office L. D. Telephone 3297 Market
Residence L. D. Telephone 5277-M Market
GEORGE A. DOUGLAS
Counselor-at-Law
Rooms 613-614, Metropolitan Building
113 Market St., Cor. Washington, Newark,
N. J.
General Practice	Notary Public
WILLIAM R. MORRIS
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
1020 Metropolitan Life Building
Minneapolis	Minn.
BROWN S. SMITH
Attorney-at-Law
Offices: Suite 802 Sykes Block
Near Third and Hennepin
PERSONAL CARDS
Minneapolis
Minn.
GEORGE W. MITCHELL
Attorney-at-Law
908 Walnut Street
Philadelphia	Pa.
Tel. 5437 Fort Hill	Cable Address, Epben
EDGAR P. BENJAMIN
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
34 School Street	Boston,
Mass.
Telephone Connection
W. Ashbie Hawkins	George W. F. McMechen
HAWKINS & McMECHEN
Attorn eys-at-Law
21 East Saratoga Street	Baltimore, Md.
Phones: Office, Bell 4059; New 420-M
Residence, New 733-A
THOS. E. GREENE, JR.
Attorney and Counselor-at-Law
Notary Public
Telephone 5277 Morningside
DR. GERTRUDE E. CURTIS
Surgeon Dentist
188 W. 135th Street	New York City
WILLIAM L. BELL
Architect
138*4 Auburn Avenue	Atlanta, Ga.
E. ALDAMA JACKSON
Graduate Institute of Musical Art. Organist and Dircct07
of Music St. Mark’s M. E. Church
Teacher of Theory and Piano
Theory course embraces elementary, and advanced
Harmony or Counterpoint.
Private or Class Work
Studio: 30 W. 132d STREET, NEW YORK CITY
Maloney Block
Youngstown, Ohio
B. F. BOOTH
Attorney-at-Law
57 N. Second Street
Memphis
Tenn.
*3*4
THOMAS W. HOLMES
Attorney-at'Law
Decatur Street	Atlanta, Georgia
Mention The Crisis
J . E . O R M E S
ACCOUNTANT
Audits	Systems
Business information by mail. Open for
engagements July and August
Box 25, Wilberforce University
Wilbcrforce, O.
Mr. Alfred Elis Du Bois, commercial agent
at Jeremie, Haiti, offers his services for all
kinds of business and exportation and Im-
portation between Haiti and the United States.
Telephone 4214 Greeley
BRANIC’S EXPRESS
ANDREW J. BRANIC, Proprietor
Packing and Shipping—Goods Forwarded to All Parts
of the World
Orders by mail or ’phone receive prompt attention.
Trunks stored, 25c. per month.
459 Seventh Avenue	New York

Make $35 to $65 a week show-
ing this great Tailor-Book.
GoodwHo much finer and pricofl
no much lowor, ovoryono bpub
the difference at a glanco.
Special Offer
To prove our unoQualledquality
wo will let you ordor nt the
whole-alo prico. a Samplo Suit or
oven a pair of pants aa low ns SU.-13
—and no extra charges ovon for tho
biggest peg top stylos. You can
now mnko more quick mon:y nnd huy your -_
own fine tailored clothes cheaper than you ever Ihomchtpoaaihle.
We prepay tho charges on overy order and don't keep a cent of
•ny customer • money unlcaa ho ia woll pleased. Letuaeond you
thiannonamplo outfit nnd nhow you how to tako tho moat perfoct
mcoaurcu for tho tincat tailoring on tho market* Write ua today*
The Chicago Tailors’ Association
Dopt. 868 » Von Huron and Market St*., CHICAGO
A Selected List of Books
These prices do not include postage. Postage extra.
Tug Quest of the Silver Fleece. (W. E. B.	Du Bois)..........$1.35
House Behind the Cedars. (Charles \Y. Chesnutt).............. 1.50
Hazel. (Mary White Ovington)................................ 1.00
The Autobiography of an Ex-Colored Man. (Anonymous).........	1.20
Lyrics of Lowly Life. (Paul Laurence Dunbar)................ 1.25
The Marrow of Tradition. (Charles W. Chesnutt).............. 1.50
The Stort of the Gods. (Paul Laurence Dunbar) .............. 1.50
Norris Wright Cuney. (Maud Cuney Hare)...................... 1.50
A Narrative of the Negro. (Leila Atnos Pendleton)............ 1.50
Souls of Black Folk. (W. E. B. Du Bois)...................... 1.25
Race Adjustment. (Kelly Miller)............................. 2.00
History of the Negro. (B. G. Brawley)....................... 1.25
Half a Man. (Mary White Ovington)............................. LOO
Mind of Primitive Man. (Franz Boas)......................... 1.50
Aftermath of Slavery. (William Sinclair)..................... 1.50
John Brown. (W. E. B. Du Bois)............................... 1.25
Negro in American History. (J. W. Cromwell) ................ 1-25
Liberia. (Frederick Starr)............................%..... 1-00
Facts of Reconstruction. (John R. Lynch)..................... 1.50
Story of the Negro. 2 Volumes. (Booker T.	Washington).......	3.00
Masterpieces of Negro Eloquence. (Alice Moore Dunbar, Editor) 2.50
Poems of Paul Laurence Dunbar............................... 2.00
The African Abroad. 2 Volumes. (William H. Ferris).......... 5.00
Afro-American Folksongs. (H. E. Krehbiel)................... 2.00
Out of the House of Bondage. (Kelly Miller)................. 1.50
The Colored Inventor. (Henry E. Baker)...........................15
A Child’s Story of Dunbar. (Julia L. Henderson)..................25
Address
THE CRISIS
70 Fifth Avenue	::	::	New York City
Mention T** C*i»i»
To the Masonic Fraternity
The CRISIS has the honor to announce the
publication of the most important book on
Negro Masonry since Upton’s epoch-making
work; and the only book written by an au-
thority from our own point of view.
THE AUTHOR
George W. Crawford, 32°
A graduate of Tuskegee, Talladega and Yale, formerly
clerk of the Probate Court of New haven and now a
practicing lawyer there. Mr. Crawford is one of the best
informed masons in the country.
THE BOOK
is
Prince Hall and His Followers
And is a carefully argued defense of the legitimacy of
Negro Masonry in the United States, with notes and
documents.
Ready September 15th
Price One Dollar. Postage Extra.
ORDER NOW
AGENTS WANTED
THE CRISIS
70 Filth Avenue	„	;;	New York